
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  051 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Airbus Subsidies


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss government assistance to Airbus Industrie, or mention a
trade dispute between Airbus and a U.S. aircraft producer over the issue of
subsidies.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss government assistance to Airbus Industrie, or mention a
trade dispute between Airbus and a U.S. aircraft producer over the issue of
subsidies.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite or discuss assistance to Airbus Industrie by the
French, German, British or Spanish government(s), or will discuss a trade
dispute between Airbus or the European governments and a U.S. aircraft
producer, most likely Boeing Co. or McDonnell Douglas Corp., or the U.S.
government, over federal subsidies to Airbus.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Airbus Industrie

2. European aircraft consortium, Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm GmbH, British
   Aerospace PLC, Aerospatiale, Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A.
  
3. federal subsidies, government assistance, aid, loan, financing

4. trade dispute, trade controversy, trade tension

5. General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) aircraft code

6. Trade Policy Review Group (TPRG)

7. complaint, objection

8. retaliation, anti-dumping duty petition, countervailing duty petition,
   sanctions


<fac> Factor(s):



<def> Definition(s):

</top>

<top>


<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  052 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  South African Sanctions


<desc> Description:

Document discusses sanctions against South Africa.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses international sanctions against South Africa.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss any aspect of South African sanctions, such
as: sanctions declared/proposed by a country against the South African
government in response to its apartheid policy, or in response to pressure by
an individual, organization or another country; international sanctions
against Pretoria imposed by the United Nations; the effects of sanctions
against S. Africa; opposition to sanctions; or, compliance with sanctions by a
company.  The document will identify the sanctions instituted or being
considered, e.g., corporate disinvestment, trade ban, academic boycott, arms
embargo.


<con> Concept(s):

1. sanctions, international sanctions, economic sanctions

2. corporate exodus, corporate disinvestment, stock divestiture, ban on new
   investment, trade ban, import ban on South African diamonds, U.N. arms
   embargo, curtailment of defense contracts, cutoff of nonmilitary goods,
   academic boycott, reduction of cultural ties

3. apartheid, white domination, racism

4. antiapartheid, black majority rule   

5. Pretoria


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  South Africa

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  053 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Leveraged Buyouts  


<desc> Description:

Document mentions a leveraged buyout valued at or above 200 million dollars.


<smry> Summary:

Document mentions a leveraged buyout valued at or above 200 million dollars.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite a leveraged buyout (LBO) valued at or above 200
million dollars.  The LBO may be at any stage, e.g., considered, proposed,
pending, a fact.  The company (being) taken private must be identified.  The
offer may be expressed in dollars a share.


<con> Concept(s):

1. leveraged buyout, LBO

2. take private, go private

3. management-led leveraged buyout


<fac> Factor(s):
<price> Price:  >= 200 million dollars
</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Leveraged Buyout (LBO) - Takeover of a company using borrowed funds, with the
target company's assets serving as security for the loans taken out by the
acquiring firm, which repays the loans out of the cash flow of the acquired
company or from the sale of the assets of the acquired firm.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description

<num> Number:  054 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Satellite Launch Contracts


<desc> Description:

Document will cite the signing of a contract or preliminary agreement, or the
making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial satellite.


<smry> Summary:

Document will cite the signing of a contract or preliminary agreement, or the
making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial satellite.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will mention the signing of a contract or preliminary
agreement , or the making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial
satellite.


<con> Concept(s):

1. contract, agreement

2. launch vehicle, rocket, payload, satellite
 
3. launch services, commercial space industry, commercial launch industry

4. Arianespace, Martin Marietta, General Dynamics, McDonnell Douglas

5. Titan, Delta II, Atlas, Ariane, Proton


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  055 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Insider Trading


<desc> Description:  

Document discusses an insider-trading case.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses an insider-trading case.


<narr> Narrative:  

A relevant document will discuss an insider-trading case, identifying the
accused/the defendant(s), as well as the government doing the investigation.
It will also mention at least one of the following specifics of the case: the
alleged illegal activity, whether charged with providing or using insider
information, possible conspirator's role in the scheme, the monetary amount of
illegal profit and of damage; if pronounced guilty, then the sentence terms,
e.g., monetary penalty (cash payment), time in prison, cooperation with the
government, probation, community service, being barred from the industry for a
certain time period.


<con> Concept(s):

1. insider-trading case

2. insider-trading scheme, illegal insider-trading activity, illegal
   securities transactions, white-collar crime, securities-law violations

3. insider-trading investigation, insider-trading probe

4. Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC

5. investment banking, investment banker, arbitrage, arbitrager, securities
   analyst

6. inside information, advance knowledge of corporate takeovers 

7. leaking information, misappropriating information, leaking word, leaking
   news, passing a tip

8. pre-bid market activity, takeover speculation, matched-book
   transaction


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Insider Trading - Dealing in shares with the advantage of inside information.
The owners of shares in a public company are all supposed to be equal - so if
one of them knows that the company is about to go broke before the others and
sells his shares while their price is still good, that is unfair.  In many
countries, including the U.S. and the U.K., it is also illegal.  However, it
is very difficult to prove that an investor is buying or selling shares on the
basis of inside information.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  056 


<dom> Domain:  International Finance


<title> Topic:  Prime (Lending) Rate Moves, Predictions


<desc> Description:

Document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate, or will
report an actual prime rate move.


<smry> Summary:

Document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate, or will
report an actual prime rate move.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate
(national-level or major banks'), or will report a prime rate move by major
banks, in response to or in anticipation of a federal/national-level action,
such as a cut in the discount rate.


<con> Concept(s):

1. prime lending rate, prime rate, base rate, reference rate, minimum lending
   rate, bank rate, weekly bank rate

2. Federal Reserve Board, Bank of Canada, major commercial banks

3. foresee, expect, predict, speculate

4. move, increase, decrease, rise, decline, boost, cut 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  057 


<dom> Domain:  U.S. Economics


<title> Topic:  MCI


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss how MCI has been doing since the Bell System breakup.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss how MCI (Multiport Communications Interface) has
been doing since the Bell System breakup.


<narr> Narrative:
 
A relevant document will discuss the financial health of MCI Communications
Corp. since the breakup of the Bell System (AT&T and the seven regional Baby
Bells) in January 1984.  The status indicated may not necessarily be a direct
or indirect result of the breakup of the system and ensuing regulation and
deregulation of Ma Bell or of the restrictions placed upon the seven Bells; it
may result from any number of factors, such as advances in telecommunications
technology, MCI initiative, etc.  MCI's financial health may be reported
directly: a broad statement about its earnings or cash flow, or a report
containing financial data such as a quarterly report; or it may be reflected
by one or more of the following: credit ratings, share of customers, volume
growth, cuts in capital spending, $$ figure net loss, pre-tax charge,
analysts' or MCI's own forecast about how well they will be doing, or MCI's
response to price cuts that AT&T makes at its own initiative or under orders
from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), such as price reductions,
layoffs of employees out of a perceived need to cut costs, etc.  Daily OTC
trading stock market and monthly short interest reports are NOT relevant; the
inventory must be longer term, at least quarterly.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  MCI Communications Corp.

2.  Bell System breakup

3.  Federal Communications Commission, FCC

4.  regulation, deregulation

5.  profits, revenue, net income, net loss, write-downs

6.  NOT daily OTC trading, NOT monthly short interest


<fac> Factor(s):

Time:  after January 1984

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  058


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Rail Strikes


<desc> Description:

Document will predict or anticipate a rail strike or report an ongoing rail 
strike.  


<smry> Summary:

Document will predict or anticipate a rail strike or report an ongoing rail 
strike.  


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will either report an impending rail strike, describing
the conditions which may lead to a strike, or will provide an update on an
ongoing strike.  To be relevant, the document will identify the location of
the strike or potential strike.  For an impending strike, the document will
report the status of negotiations, contract talks, etc. to enable an
assessment of the probability of a strike.  For an ongoing strike, the
document will report the length of the strike to the current date and the
status of negotiations or mediation.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  rail strike, picket, stoppage, lockout, walkout, wildcat

2.  rail union, negotiator, railroad, federal conciliator, brotherhood

3.  union proposal, talks, settlement, featherbedding, cost cutting

4.  working without a contract, expired contract, cooling off period


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time:  Current

</fac>

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  059 


<dom> Domain:  Environment


<title> Topic:  Weather Related Fatalities


<desc> Description:

Document will report a type of weather event which has directly caused at
least one fatality in some location.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a type of weather event which has directly caused at
least one fatality in some location.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include the number of people killed and injured by
the weather event, as well as reporting the type of weather event and the
location of the event.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  lightning, avalanche, tornado, typhoon, hurricane, heat, heat wave, flood,
    snow, rain, downpour, blizzard, storm, freezing temperatures

2.  dead, killed, fatal, death, fatality, victim

3.  NOT man-made disasters, NOT war-induced famine

4.  NOT earthquakes, NOT volcanic eruptions


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  060 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Merit-Pay vs. Seniority


<desc> Description:

Document will describe either one or both sides of the controversy over the
use of standards of performance to determine salary levels and incentive pay
as contrasted with determining pay solely on the basis of seniority or
longevity on the job.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe either one or both sides of the controversy
over a change in the use of standards of performance to determine
salary levels and incentive pay as contrasted with determining pay
solely on the basis of seniority or longevity on the job.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will name an employer (company, institution, or
governmental entity) which has announced a change in its policy regarding
merit vs. seniority in paying employees, or name an employee group (union or
lobbying group) which is protesting a change in merit vs. seniority status for
a particular employee group.  The change announced should be a move away from
one policy toward another, not an announcement of across-the-board cuts as a
cost-cutting measure.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  merit-pay, merit pay, performance, award program, bonus

2.  seniority, longevity, cost-of-living

3.  salary, pay, compensation, raise

4.  appraisal, evaluation, assessment, testing, career ladder, peer review,
    certifying


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  061 


<dom> Domain:  International Politics


<title> Topic:  Israeli Role in Iran-Contra Affair


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss the role of Israel in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss the role of Israel in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss Israel's role in the Iran-Contra Affair.  Any
mention or hint of Israeli involvement in the scandal, e.g., selling arms to
Iran, suggesting diverting profits from sales of arms to Iran to Nicaraguan
insurgents, participating in diversion of funds to the Contras, kicking back
money to Iranian officials, kidnapping relatives of top Iranian officials by
the Mossad (Israeli intelligence service) to be exchanged for U.S. hostages in
Lebanon, is relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Iran-Contra affair, initiative, controversy, scandal

2.  role of Israel, Israeli involvement

3.  Israeli intermediaries, middlemen, arms dealers, government officials

4.  David Kimche, Michael Ledeen, Jaacov Nimrodi


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 062


<dom> Domain:  Military


<title> Topic:  Military Coups D'etat


<desc> Description:

Document will report a military coup d'etat, either attempted or successful,
in any country.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a military coup d'etat, either attempted or successful,
in any country.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify the country involved, the group responsible
for the coup or coup attempt, the target of the coup, and the motivation of
the coup plotters. It should NOT be about civilian government shake ups.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  coup d'etat, coup attempt, skirmish, revolt, mutiny

2.  oust, take charge, rebel, storm, surrender

3.  regime

4.  amnesty


<fac> Factor(s):

<Time>  Time:  Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  063 


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Machine Translation


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a machine translation system.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a machine translation system.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a machine translation system which is being
developed or marketed in any country.  It will identify the developer or
vendor, name the system, and identify one or more features of the system.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  machine translation system

2.  language, dictionary, font

3.  batch, interactive, process, user interface


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  064 


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Hostage-Taking


<desc> Description:

Document will report an event or result of politically motivated
hostage-taking.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report an event or result of politically motivated
hostage-taking.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report an attempt (successful or unsuccessful) to
seize a hostage for some political purpose, report on hostages currently held,
or report a current hostage release event.  The document will identify the
nationality of the victim, some identification of the perpetrators
(nationality or religion), and location where the hostage-taking occurred.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  kidnap, seize, hijack

2.  negotiate, trade, exchange, swap

3.  free, release

4.  retaliate

5.  captivity, terrorism

6.  captors, hostages, negotiator, victims


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  065


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Information Retrieval Systems


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a type of information retrieval system.


<smry> Summary:

A relevant document will identify a new information retrieval system, identify
the company or person marketing the system, and identify some of the
characteristics of the system.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify an information retrieval system, identify
the company or person marketing the system, and identify some of the
characteristics of the system.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  information retrieval system

2.  storage, database, data, query


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  066 


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Natural Language Processing


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a type of natural language processing technology which
is being developed or marketed in the U.S.

<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a type of natural language processing technology which
is being developed or marketed in the U.S.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a company or institution developing or
marketing a natural language processing technology, identify the technology,
and identify one or more features of the company's product.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  natural language processing

2.  translation, language, dictionary, font

3.  software applications


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  067 


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Politically Motivated Civil Disturbances


<desc> Description:

Document will report a current civil disturbance in any country, involving
citizens of that country protesting a political position of their own
country's government.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a current civil disturbance in any country, involving
citizens of that country protesting a political position of their own
country's government.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report the location of the disturbance, the identity
of the group causing the disturbance, the nature of the disturbance, the
identity of the group suppressing the disturbance and the political goals of
the protesters. It should NOT be about economically-motivated civil
disturbances and NOT be about a civil disturbance directed against a second
country.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  protest, unrest, demonstration, march, riot, clash, uprising, rally,
    boycott, sit-in

2.  students, agitators, dissidents

3.  police, riot police, troops, army, National Guard, government forces

4.  NOT economically-motivated


<fac> Factor(s):

<time>  Time:  Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  068


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Health Hazards from Fine-Diameter Fibers


<desc> Description:

Document will report actual studies, or even unsubstantiated concerns about
the safety to manufacturing employees and installation workers of
fine-diameter fibers used in insulation and other products.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report actual studies, or even unsubstantiated concerns about
the safety to manufacturing employees and installation workers of
fine-diameter fibers used in insulation and other products.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report the type of fiber in question, and whether the
fiber has been determined to be harmful or is merely suspected of being
harmful.

<con> Concept(s):

1.  fine-diameter fibers, glass, ceramic, mineral-wool, asbestos, cellulose

2.  diminished lung capacity, cancer

3.  workplace safety, OSHA


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  069


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Attempts to Revive the SALT II Treaty


<desc> Description:

Document will report an attempt by the U.S. House of Representatives or a
European country to revive the SALT II Treaty ceilings on weapons in order to
limit President Reagan's military build up.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report an attempt by the U.S. House of Representatives or a
European country to revive the SALT II Treaty ceilings on weapons in order to
limit President Reagan's military build up.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will describe an attempt to push the U.S. Administration
to adhere to the limits on weapons proposed in SALT II.  To be relevant the
document must identify what group is pushing the policy and what methods they
are using to influence the U.S. Administration.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  SALT II, treaty, ceiling, missiles

2.  House, Senate, President, Europe

3.  war, enemy, fight


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

SALT II - Treaty signed by Carter and Brezhnev in 1979 limiting the number of
several categories of strategic weapons which the Soviet Union and the U.S.
would build and deploy.  The treaty was never ratified by the U.S. Senate, and
expired in 1985.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  070 


<dom> Domain:  Law and Government


<title> Topic:  Surrogate Motherhood


<desc> Description:

Document will report judicial proceedings and opinions on contracts for
surrogate motherhood.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report judicial proceedings and opinions on contracts for
surrogate motherhood.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report legal opinions, judgments, and decisions
regarding surrogate motherhood and the custody of any children which result
from surrogate motherhood.  To be relevant, a document must identify the case,
state the issues which are or were being decided and report at least one
ethical or legal question which arises from the case.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  surrogate, mothers, motherhood

2.  judge, lawyer, court, lawsuit, custody, hearing, opinion, finding


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):


</top>
 
<top>


<head>  Tipster Topic Description


<num>  Number:  071


<dom>  Domain:  Military


<title>  Topic:  Border Incursions


<desc>  Description:

Document will report incursions by land, air, or water into the border area of
one country by military forces of a second country or a guerrilla group based
in a second country.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report brief incursions by land, air, or water into the
border area of one country by military forces of a second country or a
guerrilla group based in a second country.


<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will name the invading country or group, name the invaded
country, and identify the target or goal of the attacking force.  The target
or goal must be a military objective. It should NOT be about a war or invasion
in which troops remain on foreign soil for a sustained engagement. 
It should NOT be about a territorial dispute or economic dispute (such as
fishing rights) which is being negotiated or argued by civilian groups.



<con>  Concept(s):

1.  rebels, refugees, soldiers, guerrillas

2.  raid, assault, skirmish, dispute, fighting, clash, retaliation

3.  border, frontier, ford, thalweg, air space, territorial limit

4.  NOT sustained engagement

5.  NOT fishing rights

<fac>  Factor(s):


<def>  Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head>  Tipster Topic Description


<num>  Number:  072


<dom>  Domain:  U.S. Economics


<title>  Topic:  Demographic Shifts in the U.S.


<desc>  Description:

Document will report a movement of people from one area of the U.S. to another
for a variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some economic impact.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report a movement of people from one area of the U.S. to another
for a variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some economic impact.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will name the location (state, county, city, town, or
geographical area) which is undergoing a demographic shift, report whether the
shift is a gain or loss of population, and give some indication of the
magnitude of the shift such as a number, percentage, ratio, or ranking.
The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some impact on the economy of either the losing area, the
receiving area, or both.


<con>  Concept(s):

1.  population

2.  shift, gain, loss

3.  census


<fac>  Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def>  Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  073


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Demographic Shifts across National Boundaries


<desc> Description:

Document will report a movement of people from one country to another for a
variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large enough
to have some economic impact.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report a movement of people from one country to another for a
variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large enough
to have some economic impact.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will name the location (country or geographical area of a
country) which is undergoing a demographic shift, report whether the shift is
a gain or loss of population, and give some indication of the magnitude of the
shift such as a number, percentage, ratio, or ranking.
The movement of population described should be large enough to
have some impact on the economy of either the losing country, the receiving
country, or both.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  population

2.  shift, gain, loss

3.  immigration, emigration, deportation, diaspora, exile


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  074 


<dom> Domain:  Political


<title> Topic:  Conflicting Policy 


<desc> Description:

Document will cite an instance in which the U.S. government propounds two 
conflicting or opposing policies. 


<smry> Summary:

Document will cite an instance in which the U.S. government propounds two 
conflicting or opposing policies. 


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite an instance in which the U.S. federal government
propounds two policies which are in conflict with or opposition to each other,
or seem at least hypocritical.  These policies may be cited in the same
document, or in two separate documents within one month's time.  The target is
conflicting policies, NOT a reversal of policy.  Examples of two-faced policy
of interest include: expending funds in the campaign against tobacco use while
subsidizing the U.S. tobacco industry and the marketing of U.S. tobacco
products abroad, allowing imports of produce treated with pesticide which is
banned in the U.S., disapproving the sale of deficient infant formula in the
U.S. while allowing it to be exported to the third world.


<con> Concept(s):

1. condemn, prohibit, ban

2. subsidize


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  075


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology 


<title> Topic:  Automation


<desc> Description:

Document will identify an instance in which automation has clearly paid off,
or conversely, has failed.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify an instance in which automation has clearly paid off,
or conversely, has failed.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite a case in which automation has been at least a
factor in cutting costs, by either increased efficiency or a smaller payroll
or both, or a case in which automation has failed for some reason in reducing
costs, or had disappointing results.  The case may involve an industry or a
particular firm.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  automation

2.  increased efficiency, smaller payroll, work force reduction

3.  pay off, cut costs


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  076


<dom> Domain:  Law and Government 


<title> Topic:  U.S. Constitution - Original Intent


<desc> Description:

Document will include a discussion of, or debate over, the issue of the
original intent of the U.S. Constitution, or the meaning of a particular
amendment to the Constitution, or will present an individual's interpretation
of an amendment.


<smry> Summary:

Document will include a discussion of, or debate over, the issue of the
original intent of the U.S. Constitution, or the meaning of a particular
amendment to the Constitution, or will present an individual's interpretation
of an amendment.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include a discussion of, or debate over, the issue of
the original intent of the U.S. Constitution, or the meaning of a particular
amendment to the Constitution, or will present an individual's interpretation
of an amendment.  (A mere reference to the problem is not relevant.)


<con> Concept(s):

1.  U.S. Constitution, separation of powers, body of the Constitution, Bill of
    Rights, First Amendment, Fifth Amendment

2.  original intent
  

<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  077


<dom> Domain:  Environment


<title> Topic:  Poaching


<desc> Description:

Document will report a poaching method used against a certain type of
wildlife.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report specific poaching activities including
identification of the type of wildlife being poached, the poaching
technique or method of killing the wildlife which is used by the
poacher, and the reason for the poaching.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify the type of wildlife being poached, the
poaching technique or method of killing the wildlife which is used by the
poacher, and the reason for the poaching (e.g. for a trophy, meat, or money).
A report of poaching or someone caught for poaching without mention of the
technique used and the reason is not relevant.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  poaching, illegal hunting, fishing, trapping, equipment

2.  territorial waters, economic zone, game preserve, refuge, park

3.  arrest, impound, fine

4.  issue, agreement, license, treaty, legal limit


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  078


<dom> Domain:  Environment


<title> Topic:  Greenpeace


<desc> Description:

Document will report activity by Greenpeace to carry out their environmental
protection goals.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report activity by Greenpeace to carry out their environmental
protection goals.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report a protest action by Greenpeace, citing the
company or country targeted by the organization, the specific target (such as
a ship, train, etc.), the action carried out by Greenpeace, and the objective
which Greenpeace sought to attain.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  Greenpeace, environment, group, activist

2.  protest, disrupt, block, harass, scuttle, trespass, confront

3.  anti-nuclear, uranium, radioactive, missile


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  079


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  FRG Political Party Positions


<desc> Description:

Document will identify at least one German political party and report some
position which the party has taken in regard to a political, social, economic,
military, environmental, or international objective.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify at least one German political party or faction
and report some position which the party has taken in regard to a
political, social, economic, military, environmental, or international
objective.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report at least one goal or objective of one of the
German political parties.  The position will be stated clearly enough that the
reader will be able to understand where the party stands on a specific issue.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  Social Democrats, SPD, Green Party, Christian Democratic Union, CDU, Reds,
    Green, Blacks, Christian Social Union

2.  oppose, support, demand

3.  proponents, advocates, allies

4.  swing, shift, aim, goal


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  Germany

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  080


<dom> Domain:  Political                          


<title> Topic:  1988 Presidential Candidates Platforms


<desc> Description:

Document will identify something about the platform of a 1988 presidential 
candidate.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify something about the platform of a 1988 presidential 
candidate.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify something about the platform of a 1988
presidential candidate: his campaign, plans, promises, philosophy, position on
an issue, issue(s) important to him, or how he would address an issue if
elected.  The platform of an individual candidate is of interest; the party
platform is not relevant.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  Bush, Dukakis, Gephardt, Dole, Haig, Simon, Robertson, Jackson, Kemp, 
Babbitt, DuPont, Gore, Hart, Biden

2.  platform, plans, idea, promise, position, stance, philosophy, posturing,
    campaign, issue

3.  presidential candidate, aspirant, contender, hopeful

4.  NOT Democratic party platform, NOT Republican party platform


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  081


<dom> Domain:  Finance


<title> Topic: Financial crunch for televangelists in the wake of the PTL
scandal


<desc> Description:

Document will report a loss of revenue of a televangelist in the aftermath of
the PTL scandal, or a financial crisis triggered by the scandal.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a loss of revenue of a televangelist in the aftermath of
the PTL scandal, or a financial crisis triggered by the scandal.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a religious broadcaster, and report a
specific dollar amount or a percentage loss, indicating a decline in revenue
suffered by that broadcaster as a result of consumer reaction to the Jim
Bakker scandal.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  donations, confidence, checks, money, dollars

2.  plead, beg, cry

3.  down, fall, slip

4.  religious broadcasters, televangelists

5.  Bakker, Falwell, Robertson, Swaggart, Schuller, Roberts


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  082 


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Genetic Engineering


<desc> Description:  

Document discusses a genetic engineering application, a product that has been,
is being, or will be developed by genetic manipulation, or attitudes toward
genetic engineering.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses a genetic engineering application, a product that has been,
is being, or will be developed by genetic manipulation, or attitudes toward
genetic engineering.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss a product, e.g., drug, microorganism,
vaccine, animal, plant, agricultural product, developed by genetic engineering
techniques; identify an application, such as to clean up the environment or
human gene therapy for a specific problem; or, present human attitudes toward
genetic engineering.


<con> Concept(s):

1. genetic engineering, molecular manipulation

2. biotechnology
 
3. genetically engineered product: plant, animal, drug, microorganism,
   vaccine, agricultural product

4. cure a disease, clean up the environment, increase agricultural
   productivity
 

<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 083


<dom> Domain: Environment 


<title> Topic: Measures to Protect the Atmosphere


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss plans, projects, agreements, treaties, or laws concluded
or under consideration aimed at protecting the atmosphere.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss plans, projects, agreements, treaties, or laws concluded
or under consideration aimed at protecting the atmosphere.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss specific steps taken or under consideration
at the multilateral, bilateral, or national level to protect the atmosphere.
The plan, project, agreement, treaty, or law discussed in the document will
identify steps taken or to be taken under the measure and its purpose
(limiting chlorofluorocarbon emissions, reducing acid rain, containing carbon
dioxide buildup, or blocking deforestation) and not focus on scientific debate
or research into such atmospheric phenomena as ozone depletion and global
warming.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Greenhouse effect, global warming, carbon dioxide buildup

2.  Acid rain, smokestack emissions

3.  Deforestation

4.  Chlorofluorocarbons   


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 084


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Alternative/renewable Energy Plant & Equipment Installation


<desc> Description:

Document will identify planned or under-construction alternative/renewable
energy plant or equipment installations.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify planned or under-construction alternative/renewable
energy plant or equipment installations.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a specific alternative/renewable energy
plant or equipment installation planned or under-construction, to include the
technology employed, projected capacity or output, location, and specific
financial information, e.g. total cost, source of funding, estimated unit
production costs, etc.  Document will not focus on political discussions of
developing sources of alternate energy, nor will it focus on macroeconomic
discussions of national energy needs.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Alternative energy, renewable energy

2.  Cogeneration, hydro power, solar energy, windmills, geothermal, biomass


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

<time> Time:  future

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 085


<dom> Domain:  Law and Government 


<title> Topic:  Official Corruption


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss allegations, or measures being taken against, corrupt
public officials of any governmental jurisdiction worldwide.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss allegations, or measures being taken against, corrupt
public officials of any governmental jurisdiction worldwide.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss charges or actions being taken against
corrupt public officials (be they elected, appointed, or career civil servant)
anywhere in the world.  The allegations or charges must be specific, e.g.
bribes taken >from a named group or individual with a given objective, rather
than generalized allegations of endemic political corruption, or moves against
corporate or private malfeasance (unless linked to an official corruption
case).


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Official corruption, public corruption

2.  Bribery, prostitution, cover-up, undercover investigation,
    influence-peddling, illegal payment, collusion


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  086


<dom> Domain:  Finance


<title> Topic:  Bank Failures


<desc> Description:

Document will identify recent bank failures within the United States,
specifying name, location, assets, and federal or state authorities taking
action.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify recent closings by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation of a failed commercial bank chartered within the U.S.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document, in addition to giving specific identifying information on
a failed bank (or banks), must be clear that the bank was chartered within the
United State and that it is a bank, as opposed to another financial
institution such as a savings and loan or credit union, and must specify the
actions taken or being taken by the public authorities.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Bank failure

2.  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, FDIC, Comptroller of the Currency,
    state banking authorities, state bank regulators


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

<time>  Time:  current

</fac>  


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 087


<dom> Domain: Law & Government 


<title> Topic: Criminal Actions Against Officers of Failed
               Financial Institutions


<desc> Description:

Document will report on current criminal actions against officers of a failed
U.S. financial institution.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on current criminal actions against officers of a failed
U.S. banking institution (including all categories of banking).


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will discuss a recently concluded or pending
criminal case being pursued by U.S. federal or state authorities against
officers of a failed financial institution.  Civil actions, such as creditor
claims filed for recovery of losses, are not relevant.  The failed institution
may have been insured by either federal or state funds and may belong to any
category of financial institution, e.g. bank, savings and loan, credit union,
etc.  Although not essential, it would be preferable if the document provided
such details on the case as specific crime, losses to insurance funds,
penalties imposed, etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  FDIC, bank, thrift, savings & loan, bank

2.  suit, trial, restitution, default, conspiracy, audit, fraud, felony


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

<time> Time:  current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 088


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Crude Oil Price Trends


<desc> Description:

Document will provide quantitative data usable in charting international
crude oil price trends.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide quantitative data usable in charting international
crude oil price trends.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, document must contain international crude oil production and
price data in at least two out of the three following categories: reported
daily output by any member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC) or the larger non-OPEC producers (e.g. U.S., USSR, Mexico,
Norway, and Great Britain); the official production quota set by OPEC for any
of its members; and, prices in at least one of the so-called "benchmark" crude
oil markets (specifically, West Texas Intermediate, North Sea Brent, Rotterdam
crude oil spot market, and crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile
Exchange).  Documents referencing OPEC and its members likely will report or
speculate about political and diplomatic moves related to the "official" OPEC
price, but such information by itself is not directly relevant.  The best
documents would be those which summarize and statistically analyze crude oil
production and price data over a period of time, rather than those which
simply report daily market numbers.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC

2.  Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait,
    Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates (UAE), 
    Venezuela.

3.  U.S., USSR, Mexico, Norway, Great Britain

3.  West Texas Intermediate, North Sea Brent, Rotterdam spot, New York
    Mercantile Exchange.


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 089


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: "Downstream" Investments by OPEC Member States


<desc> Description: 

Document must identify an existing or pending investment by an OPEC member
state in any "downstream" operation.


<smry> Summary:

Document must identify an existing or pending investment by an OPEC member
state in any "downstream" operation.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must identify an existing or pending investment by
an OPEC member state (or its national oil company) in any "downstream"
installation or enterprise.  The investment may be through a joint venture,
acquisition, construction, or stock purchase of any operation in the refining,
petrochemical, oil industry equipment manufacture, drilling and exploration,
shipping, marketing and retail sales, or other ancillary "downstream"
activity.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  OPEC, Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

2.  Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait,
    Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates (UAE), 
    Venezuela.

3.  Kuwait Petroleum Co., Kuwait Investment Co.

4.  Petroleos de Venezuela  


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1.  "Downstream:" any petroleum industry activity which occurs after initial
    production of crude oil, or which supports such production.


</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 090


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Data on Proven Reserves of Oil & Natural Gas
               Producers


<desc> Description:

Document will provide totals or specific data on changes to the proven reserve
figures for any oil or natural gas producer.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide totals or specific data on changes to the proven reserve
figures for any oil or natural gas producer.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must give specific data on totals, additions,
subtractions, recalculations, or adjustments to the official proven reserve
figures used by any national or corporate entity which produces oil or natural
gas.  The document should specify whether a change is due to such factors as
new investment in drilling activity or oil field installations, depletions or
losses, recalculations of existing figures, acquisition of other producers,
etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Proven reserve

2. Oil, natural gas


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1.  Proven Reserve: although not always used with precision or industry-wide
    agreement on precise parameters, and thus subject to change or
    redefinition, a "proven reserve" can be distinguished from a probable or
    potential reserve as one which is ready for production near-term.  Oil or
    natural gas which can be economically extracted using installed equipment
    employing current technology is considered to be a proven reserve.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 091


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: U.S. Army Acquisition of Advanced Weapons Systems


<desc> Description:

Document will identify acquisition by the U.S. Army of specified advanced
weapons systems.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify acquisition by the U.S. Army of specified advanced
weapons systems.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, document will provide such specific information as contracts
concluded, payments made to contractors, or actual deliveries to the U.S. Army
of the following advanced weapons systems: Abrams Tank (M-1), Apache
Helicopter (AH-64), Patriot Missile, Blackhawk Helicopter, or Bradley Fighting
Vehicle.  Congressional discussions of such systems, DoD budget proposals,
RDT&E activities, overseas sales, component/spare parts/ancilliary
equipment/services acquisitions, and system modifications are not relevant.  In
other words, document must report actual or agreed-to deliveries to the U.S.
Army of core elements of their most modern weapons systems.


<con> Concept(s)

1. U.S. Army

2. Abrams Tank, M-1

3. Apache Helicopter, AH-64

4. Patriot Missile

5. Blackhawk Helicopter

6. Bradley Fighting Vehicle


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time: current and future

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 092


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: International Military Equipment Sales


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a proposed or recently concluded sale of military
equipment in the international arms market.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a proposed or recently concluded official sale
of military equipment between countries in the international arms
market.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, document will identify a proposed or recently concluded sale
of military equipment, to include weapons platforms, munitions, spares,
ancilliary equipment, technology, and services.  The equipment and quantities
must be identified, and recent should be defined as within the previous 12
months, but the price and conditions of sale are optional information.  Any
international sale, including transfers between NATO members or equipment
being provided under military aid programs, is relevant.  However, political
discussions of international military equipment sales, such as debate of the
Iran-Contra Affair, discussion of the UN embargo against South Africa, or
Congressional expressions of hostility against equipment sales to Arab states,
unless linked to a specific transaction, are not relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  FMS, foreign military sales


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time: current
</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 093


<dom> Domain: Politics


<title> Topic: What Backing Does the National Rifle Association
               Have?


<desc> Description:

Document must describe or identify supporters of the National Rifle
Association (NRA), or its assets.

<smry> Summary:

Document must describe or identify members or supporters of the
National Rifle Association (NRA), or discuss its finances.

<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must describe or name individuals or organizations
who are members of the NRA, or who contribute money to it.  A document is also
relevant if it quantifies the NRA's financial assets or identifies any other
NRA holdings.

<con> Concept(s):

1. National Rifle Association, NRA

2. contributor, member, supporter

3. holdings, assets, finances


<fac> Factor(s): 

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 094


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Computer-aided Crime


<desc> Description:

Document must identify a crime perpetrated with the aid of a computer.


<smry> Summary:

Document must identify a criminal activity involving computers.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must describe an illegal activity which was carried
out with the aid of a computer, either used as a planning tool, such as in
target research; or used in the conduct of the crime, such as by illegally
gaining access to someone else's computer files.  A document is NOT relevant
if it merely mentions the illegal spread of a computer virus or worm.
However, a document WOULD be relevant if the computer virus/worm were used in
conjunction with another crime, such as extortion.
  

<con> Concept(s):

1. crime, fraud

2. illegal access, corporate spying, extortion


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 095


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Computer-aided Crime Detection


<desc> Description:

Document must describe a computer application to crime solving.


<smry> Summary:

Document must describe an actual or theoretical computer application
used in crime solving.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must describe either an actual or a theoretical
computer application to detective work, by the police or by another law
enforcement organization.  A relevant document could include techniques such
as profiling criminals and their methods of operation, identifying finger
prints, spotting anomalies, etc.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1. police, detective, sleuth, enforcement agency

2. clue, records, fingerprints, methods


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 096


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Computer-Aided Medical Diagnosis


<desc> Description:

Document must describe computer programs, or computerized equipment, which aid
in medical diagnosis.


<smry> Summary:

Document must identify computer programs, or computerized equipment, which are
in operational use in medical diagnosis.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must describe actual computer software or hardware
which is in operational use for the purpose of diagnosing, or assisting in
diagnosing, patients' medical conditions.


<con> Concept(s):

1. diagnosis, scanning, testing

2. tomagraph, digital subtraction angiography, magnetic resonance scanners


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 097


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Fiber Optics Applications
 

<desc> Description:

Document must identify instances of fiber optics technology actually in use.
 

<smry> Summary:

Document must identify instances of fiber optics technology actually in use
or contracted for.
 

<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must describe actual operational situations in
which fiber optics are being employed, or will be employed.  A document
describing future fiber optics use will be relevant only if contracts have
been signed concerning the future application.


<con> Concept(s):

1. fiber optic, light

2. telephone, LAN, television 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1. Fiber optics refers to technology in which information is passed via laser
   light transmitted through glass or plastic fibers.

</top>
 
<top>


<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 098


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Fiber Optics Equipment Manufacturers


<desc> Description:

Document must identify individuals or organizations which produce fiber optics
equipment.


<smry> Summary:

Document must identify individuals or organizations which produce fiber optics
equipment or systems.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must identify by name either individuals or
companies which manufacture equipment or materials used in fiber optics
technology.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Fiber optics, lasers

2. cables, connectors, fibers


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1. Fiber optics refers to the technology by which information is passed via
   laser light transmitted through glass or plastic fibers.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  099 


<dom> Domain:  International Politics


<title> Topic:  Iran-Contra Affair


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a development in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a development in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a development in the unfolding saga termed
the Iran-Contra Affair.  A development consists of an agent and an action. Of
interest are at least piecemeal disclosures of who did what in order to be
able to come up with a description and chronology of events so that a
determination can be made of who was behind the scheme.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Iran-Contra affair, controversy, scandal

2.  President Reagan, George Bush, Oliver North, John Poindexter, Richard
    Secord, Robert McFarlane, Albert Hakim, Manucher Ghorbanifar, Hashemi
    Rafsanjani, Alexander Haig, George Shultz, Caspar Weinberger, Don Regan,
    William Casey, Michael Ledeen, David Kimche, Fawn Hall, Edward de Garay,
    Robert Dutton, Adnan Khashoggi, Benjamin Weir, William Buckley, White
    House

3.  Iran, Nicaragua, Lebanon

4.  Tower Commission, John Tower, Tower report, Brent Scowcroft, Edmund Muskie

5.  independent counsel, Lawrence Walsh

6.  management style, hands-off management

7.  arms sales to Iran

8.  diversion of profits to Nicaraguan rebels, insurgents, Contras,   
arms-for-hostages, kickbacks, kickback scheme

9.  Swiss bank accounts, records

10. sharing U.S. intelligence secrets with Tehran

11. Israeli intermediaries, front companies
 
12. contributions to the Contras from Brunei, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 100


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: Controlling the Transfer of High Technology


<desc> Description:

Document will identify efforts by the non-communist, industrialized states to
regulate the transfer of high-tech goods or "dual-use" technologies to
undesirable nations.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify efforts by the non-communist, industrialized states to
regulate the transfer of high-tech goods or "dual-use" technologies to
undesirable nations.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify activities of the U.S. Departments of
Commerce, Defense, and State to set policy or regulate exports of strategic
goods and technologies, or it will report on similar activities by allied
nations, or it will discuss technology transfer policy issues and
determinations under consideration by the Paris-based COCOM.  Unless
explicitly related to policy issues or establishment of regulations aimed at
controlling transfers of high technology goods and technologies, such events
as investigations of alleged violations of COCOM rules or arms shipments in
violation of embargoes are not relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  technology transfer, export license, export controls, strategic goods, 
international trade security policy, high technology

2.  COCOM, Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls, 
    Japan, U.S., NATO

3.  Toshiba Machine, Kongsberg Vaapenfabrik, C. Itoh


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1.  "dual-use" technology: a technology usable in both non-military and
    military products

</top>


<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 101


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology 


<title> Topic: Design of the "Star Wars" Anti-missile Defense System


<desc> Description:

Document will provide information on the proposed configuration, components, 
and technology of the U.S.'s "star wars" anti-missile defense system. 


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide information on the proposed configuration, components, 
and technology of the U.S.'s "star wars" anti-missile defense system. 


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information which aids description of the 
design and technology to be used in the anti-missile defense system advocated
by the Reagan administration, the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), also 
known as "star wars."  Any reported changes to original design, or any 
research results which might lead to changes of constituent technologies, 
are also relevant documents.  However, reports on political debate over the 
SDI, or arms control negotiations which might encompass the SDI, are NOT 
relevant to the science and technology focus of this topic, unless they 
provide specific information on design and technology.   


<con> Concept(s):

1. Strategic Defense Initiative, SDI, star wars, peace shield

2. kinetic energy weapon, kinetic kill, directed energy weapon, laser, 
   particle beam, ERIS (exoatmospheric reentry-vehicle interceptor system), 
   phased-array radar, microwave

3. anti-satellite (ASAT) weapon, spaced-based technology, strategic defense 
   technologies


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</nat>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 102


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology 


<title> Topic: Laser Research Applicable to the U.S.'s Strategic Defense 
Initiative


<desc> Description:

Document will report on laser research related, or potentially related, to 
the U.S.'s Strategic Defense Initiative.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on laser research related, or potentially related, to 
the U.S.'s Strategic Defense Initiative.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on laser research which is 
either explicitly linked to the U.S.'s Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI, 
also known as "star wars") or which has potential applicability to the 
development of SDI laser technology.  Potentially relevant research could be 
referred to as research into directed energy weapons, or high energy lasers, 
or, more generally, referred to as military laser research.  A relevant 
document could take many forms -- award of contract, report of research 
results, or abstract of a professional paper on lasers.  However, a document 
clearly focused on use of low-power lasers in consumer products, surgical 
instruments, or industrial cutting tools is NOT relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Strategic Defense Initiative, SDI, star wars, peace shield

2. laser, directed energy weapon, high energy weapon


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</nat>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 103


<dom> Domain: Law and Government 


<title> Topic: Welfare Reform


<desc> Description:

Document will report those proposed or enacted changes to U.S. federal, 
state, or local welfare laws and regulations which are propounded as reforms.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report those proposed or enacted changes to U.S. federal, 
state, or local welfare laws and regulations which are propounded as reforms.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will reveal attempts by any U.S. jurisdiction to change 
the legal or regulatory context of existing welfare programs, or to add new 
programs, which are described or labeled as a reform.  For the purposes of 
this topic, a welfare program must revolve around a transfer payment for 
which the recipient had not previously made contributions, other than 
through general tax payments. Examples include General Assistance, Aid for 
Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), public housing, Medicaid, income 
subsidies (rent and fuel subsidies, earned income tax credit, food stamps, 
etc.), child care programs (day care subsidies, nutrition programs, Head 
Start, etc.), and vocational training programs.  NOT relevant are those 
programs which could be viewed as the payment of insurance benefits to those 
who had previously made contributions (either directly or indirectly through 
a family member or employer), such as Medicare, Social Security survivor's 
benefits, and unemployment insurance.  Also NOT relevant are those documents
which deal solely with the financing or administration of existing programs.


<con> Concept(s):

1. welfare recipient, public assistance, family assistance, welfare benefit, 
relief

2. welfare reform, welfare dependency, reform movement, workfare, homeless, 
welfare culture

3. General Assistance, Aid for Families with Dependent Children, AFDC, 
Medicaid, earned income tax credit, food stamps, Head Start, job training, 
public housing


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Welfare program: although the above distinction between a "pure" transfer 
payment program and a putative insurance program is debatable, the 
distinction is made to focus the data search on those programs which are 
clearly in the welfare category, as opposed to the wide variety of social 
programs supported by U.S. government entities.

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 104


<dom> Domain: Law and Government 


<title> Topic: Catastrophic Health Insurance


<desc> Description:

Document will enumerate provisions of the U.S. Catastrophic Health Insurance 
Act of l988, or the political/legal fallout from that legislation.


<smry> Summary:

Document will enumerate provisions of the U.S. Catastrophic Health Insurance 
Act of l988, or the political/legal fallout from that legislation.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will detail the content of the U.S. medicare act of l988 
which extended catastrophic illness benefits to the elderly, with particular 
attention to the financing scheme which led to a firestorm of protest and a 
Congressional retreat, or a relevant document will detail the political/legal
consequences of the catastrophic health insurance imbroglio and subsequent 
efforts by Congress to provide similar coverages through a less-controversial
mechanism. 


<con> Concept(s):

1. Catastrophic Coverage Act of l988, Medicare Part B, Health Care Financing 
Administration

2. catastrophic-health program, catastrophic illness, catastrophic care, 
acute care, long-term nursing home care

3. American Association of Retired Persons, AARP, senior citizen, National 
Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 105


<dom> Domain: Finance 


<title> Topic: "Black Monday"


<desc> Description:

Document will state reasons why U.S. stock markets crashed on 19 October 1987
("Black Monday"), or report on attempts to guard against another such crash.


<smry> Summary:

Document will state reasons why U.S. stock markets crashed on 19 October 1987
("Black Monday"), or report on attempts to guard against another such crash.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will contain at least one reason why U.S. stock markets 
experienced a huge price drop on 19 October 1987, losses of equity so large 
that markets were said to have crashed (the Dow, for example, lost 508 points
on that one day alone); the date of the crash has become known as "Black 
Monday."  A preferable document would contain a detailed analysis of the 
crash. The best document would link analysis of events to actions taken or 
recommendations made by federal authorities or the stock markets to prevent 
future crashes.  NOT relevant are reports which simply reference, without 
analysis, "Black Monday," such as anniversary stories generated by the press 
around every October 19th.   


<con> Concept(s):

1. 19 October 1987, "Black Monday"

2. New York Stock Exchange, Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, 
National Association of Securities Dealers

3. Chicago Board of Trade, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission, CFTC

4. program trading, index arbitrage, futures market, portfolio insurance, 
specialists, margins, super DOT system

5. Brady Commission, circuit breaker


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

<time> Time: any time after 19 October 1987 

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 106


<dom> Domain: Law and Government 


<title> Topic: U.S. Control of Insider Trading


<desc> Description:

Document will report proposed or enacted changes to U.S. laws and 
regulations designed to prevent insider trading.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report proposed or enacted changes to U.S. laws and 
regulations designed to prevent insider trading.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will contain information on proposed or enacted changes 
to U.S. laws and regulations, including state laws and stock market rules, 
which are aimed at increasing penalties or closing loopholes in existing 
institutional discouragements to insider trading.  NOT relevant are reports 
on specific insider trading cases, such as the prosecutions and settlements 
related to the Boesky - Milken - Drexel Burnham Lambert scandal, unless the 
report also contains specific information on legal or regulatory change. 


<con> Concept(s):

1. insider trading

2. securities law, bill, legislation, regulation, rule

3. Insider Trading Sanctions Act, Insider Trading and Securities Fraud 
Enforcement Act

4. Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission, CFTC, National Association of Securities Dealers, NASD


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 107


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Japanese Regulation of Insider Trading


<desc> Description:

Document will inform on Japan's regulation of insider trading.


<smry> Summary:

Document will inform on Japan's regulation of insider trading.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide data on Japanese laws, regulations, and/or 
practices which help the foreigner understand how Japan controls, or does 
not control, stock market practices which could be labeled as insider trading.


<con> Concept(s):

1. insider trading

2. Japan

3. Ministry of Finance, Securities and Exchange Council, Osaka Securities 
Exchange, Tokyo Stock Exchange

4. Securities and Exchange Law, Article 58, law, legislation, guidelines, 
self-regulation

5. Nikko Securities, Yamaichi Securities, Nomura Securities, Daiwa 
Securities, Big Four brokerage firms


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Japan

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 108


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Japanese Protectionist Measures


<desc> Description:

Document will report on Japanese policies or practices which help protect 
Japan's domestic market from foreign competition.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on Japanese policies or practices which help protect 
Japan's domestic market from foreign competition.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a Japanese law or regulation, a 
governmental policy or administrative procedure, a corporate custom, or a 
business practice which discourages, or even prevents, entry into the 
Japanese market by foreign goods and services.  A document which reports 
generally on market penetration difficulties but which does not identify a 
specific Japanese barrier to trade is NOT relevant. 


<con> Concept(s):

1. Japan

2. Ministry of International Trade and Industry, MITI, Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs

3. protectionism, protect

4. tariff, subsidy, quota, dumping, obstruction, retaliation

5. structural impediment, product standard

6. trade dispute, barrier, tension, imbalance, practice

7. market access, free trade, liberalize, reciprocity

8. Super 301, 301 clause


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Japan

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>







<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 109


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Find Innovative Companies


<desc> Description:

Document must refer to one of the following: OTC Ltd., Hi Tech Enterprises,
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Integrated Solutions Inc., MIPS Computer
Systems Inc., or Ask Computer Systems Inc.


<smry> Summary:

Document must refer to one of the following: OTC Ltd., Hi Tech Enterprises,
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Integrated Solutions Inc., MIPS Computer
Systems Inc., or Ask Computer Systems Inc.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must mention one of the following companies: 
Overseas Telecommunications Commission (OTC) Ltd., Hi Tech Enterprises, 
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Integrated Solutions, MIPS Computer 
Systems Inc., or Ask Computer Systems Inc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Overseas Telecommunications Commission, OTC

2. Hi Tech Enterprises

3. Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co.

4. Integrated Solutions Inc.

5. MIPS Computer Systems Inc.

6. ASK Computer Systems Inc.


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 110


<dom> Domain: International Politics


<title> Topic:	Black Resistance Against the South African Government


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss efforts by the black majority in South Africa to 
overthrow domination by the white minority government.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss efforts by the black majority in South Africa to 
overthrow domination by the white minority government.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss any effort by blacks to force political 
change in South Africa.  The reported black challenge to apartheid may take 
any form -- military, political, or economic -- but of greatest interest 
would be information on reported activities by armed personnel linked to 
the African National Congress (ANC), either in South Africa or in bordering 
states.  


<con> Concept(s):

1.  African National Congress, ANC, Nelson Mandela, Oliver Tambo

2.  Chief Buthelezi, Inkatha, Zulu

3.  terrorist, detainee, subversive, communist

4.  Limpopo River, Angola, Botswana, Mozambique, Zambia

5.  apartheid, black township, homelands, group areas act, emergency 
regulations


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  111


<dom> Domain:  International Relations 


<title> Topic:  Nuclear Proliferation


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss efforts by the United Nations or those nations currently
possessing nuclear weapons to control the proliferation of nuclear weapons
capabilities to the non-nuclear weapons states.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss efforts by the United Nations or those nations currently
possessing nuclear weapons to control the proliferation of nuclear weapons
capabilities to the non-nuclear weapons states.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on efforts by the UN's International Atomic
Energy Agency to monitor compliance with the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty,
or, report on efforts by the United States, Britain, France, USSR, India, or
China to control the transfer of technology, equipment, materials, or delivery
systems to nations suspected of nuclear weapons development programs, or, 
a relevant document will report any nuclear activities by Argentina, Brazil, 
Iraq, Israel, North Korea, Pakistan, or South Africa (all suspected 
proliferators). 


<con> Concept(s):

1.  International Atomic Energy Agency, IAEA, international safeguards, 
Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty

2.  nuclear, atomic bomb, reprocessing, spent fuel, plutonium, enriched 
uranium, heavy water

3.  Department of Engery, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Nuclear Control
Institute

4.  United States, Britain, France, USSR, India, China

5.  Argentina, Brazil, Iraq, Israel, North Korea, Pakistan, South Africa


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  112


<dom> Domain:  Finance


<title> Topic:  Funding Biotechnology


<desc> Description:

Document will provide financial data relative to answering the question, how
much money worldwide is being invested in the biotechnology arena?


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide financial data about worldwide investment
in the biotechnology arena?


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide financial data which assists in quantifying
worldwide investment in biotechnology.  Relevant data includes the following:
funds provided to government, academic, or corporate laboratories for
biotechnology research; data on the capitalization of start-up firms in the
biotechnology arena, e.g. stock sales, venture capital investments, etc.; 
profit and loss figures for biotechnology enterprises or the biotechnology 
divisions of established corporations, etc.  


<con> Concept(s):

1. biotechnology

2. biotechnology investment


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 113


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology 


<title> Topic: New Space Satellite Applications


<desc> Description:

Document will report on non-traditional applications of space satellite
technology.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on non-traditional (innovative) applications of
space satellite technology.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss more recent or emerging applications of 
space satellite technology.  NOT relevant are such "traditional" or early 
satellite age usages as INTELSAT transmission of voice and data 
communications for telephone companies or program feeds for established 
television networks.  Also NOT relevant are such established uses of 
satellites as military communications, earth mineral resource mapping, and 
support of weather forecasting.  A few examples of newer applications are 
the building of private satellite networks for transfer of business data, 
facsimile transmission of newspapers to be printed in multiple locations, 
and direct broadcasting of TV signals.  The underlying purpose of this topic 
is to collect information on recent or emerging trends in the application of 
space satellite technology.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1. satellite, technology, use of space

2. satellite network, facsimile, direct broadcasting


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

INTELSAT: a 113-nation consortium with a near monopoly on international
satellite communications.

COMSAT:  the congressionally chartered U.S. satellite communications company
which holds 25% of INTELSAT's stock.

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 114


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Non-commercial Satellite Launches


<desc> Description:

Document will provide data on launches worldwide of non-commercial space
satellites.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide data on actual launches worldwide of
non-commercial space satellites.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information which helps identify the 
purpose and capabilities of satellites launched anywhere in the world which 
might have non-commercial applications.  Accordingly, periodic launches of 
INTELSAT communications satellites are clearly NOT relevant.  On the other 
hand, data on launches of military communication or intelligence sensor 
satellites are definitely relevant.  Potentially useful data on any given 
launch would be press comment as to whether the satellite has a military, 
scientific, or intelligence purpose, type of launch vehicle employed, 
reported satellite configuration, launch trajectory and speed, projected 
orbit, etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. satellite launch, military communications, intelligence satellite

2. launch vehicle, trajectory, orbit


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

INTELSAT:  a 113-nation consortium with a near monopoly on international
satellite communications.

COMSAT: the congressionally chartered U.S. satellite communications company
which holds 25% of INTELSAT's stock.

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 115


<dom> Domain: Law & Government 


<title> Topic: Impact of the 1986 Immigration Law


<desc> Description:

Document will report specific consequence(s) of the U.S.'s Immigration Reform
and Control Act of 1986.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report concrete example(s) of the impact of the U.S.'s
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide concrete example(s) of the impact of the 
U.S.'s Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (also known as the 
Simpson-Mazzoli Act).  Relevant examples are a foreign government's official 
complaints against the law, domestic legal and political attempts to delay 
enforcement or modify provisions of the act, imposition of fines on 
employers who hire illegal aliens, reports on undocumented workers taking 
advantage of the legalization program, enforcement actions by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, etc.  NOT relevant are such general reports as 
analyses of the law's potential impact, explication of the law's provisions, 
continuing political discourse on immigration issues, as well as immigration 
cases not related to the 1986 law. 


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Simpson-Mazzoli Act

2.  immigration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, INS, Border Patrol

3.  illegal alien (or immigrant), undocumented worker, deportation, amnesty,
extended voluntary departure, EVD


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 116


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological


<title> Topic: Generic Drug Substitutions


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a generic drug which can be substituted for a brand 
name drug in the treatment of at least one medical condition.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a generic drug which can be substituted for a brand 
name drug in the treatment of at least one medical condition.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document must have all four of the following pieces of information
relative to potential generic drug substitutions: the name of a generic drug,
the brand name (or chemical term) of the drug for which it is an equivalent, 
the manufacturer or distributor of the generic, and the medical condition(s) 
treated by both the generic and the brand name drug.  Reports which contain 
multiple generic equivalencies are clearly relevant, since the purpose of 
the search is to build a cross index of potentially cheaper generics.  General
reports on the economics, legal actions, or politics of generic competitions 
are NOT relevant, unless they contain the four elements of data specified.  


<con> Concept(s):

1.  generic drug, generic equivalent 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 117


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Capacity of the U.S. Cellular Telephone Network


<desc> Description:

Document will provide at least one datum which helps build a description,
quantification, and evaluation of the capacity of the U.S. cellular telephone
network.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide at least one datum which helps build a description,
quantification, and evaluation of the capacity of the U.S. cellular telephone
network.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide data which helps answer the question, what 
is the capacity of the installed U.S. cellular telephone network?  Relevant
information can be cumulative over time, but it must be specific regarding 
such factors as area of operation for a given cellular company, number of 
units serviced by that company, type of equipment used, technology employed, 
and near-term plans for upgrades and expansions.  NOT relevant is such 
information as investments and capitalization, management changes, 
acquisitions and mergers (unless concrete data relative to capacity also is 
reported), equipment manufacture, paging services, etc.    


<con> Concept(s):

1.  cellular, cellular telephone (or phone)


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

<time> Time: past, present, and near future

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 118


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: International Terrorists


<desc> Description:

Document will provide background information on international terrorist groups
or individuals, or detail the activities of such groups or individuals.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide background information on international terrorist groups
or individuals, or detail the activities of such groups or individuals.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report such information as the history, objectives, 
structure, areas of operation, identities of members and supporters, or 
activities of international terrorist groups and individuals.  Information 
must be sufficient to place the document into the international terrorism 
category, as defined below, so as to distinguish the report from those which 
detail activities by rebel groups pejoratively labeled as "terrorist" by a 
regime under attack.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  terrorist, terrorism, international terrorist (or terrorism)


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

International Terrorism: as defined in Title 22 of the U.S. Code, Section
2656F(d), terrorism is premeditated, politically motivated violence 
perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational or clandestine 
agents, usually intended to influence an audience.  By extension, 
international terrorism transcends national boundaries and involves the 
citizens, property, or territory of more than one country.  

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 119


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Actions Against International Terrorists


<desc> Description:

Document will report activities by established political authorities against
international terrorists.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report activities by established government authorities against
international terrorists and their sponsors.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on military, political, economic, or legal 
actions taken against international terrorists, or states accused of 
sponsoring terrorism, by recognized governments worldwide.  The official 
action must be against groups or individuals (or their sponsors) who fit the 
international terrorist mold, as defined below, rather than be actions 
against opponents of a government who are labeled as "terrorist" for 
political or propaganda purposes.


<con> Concept(s):

1. terrorist, terrorism, international terrorist (or terrorism)


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

International Terrorism: as defined in Title 22 of the U.S. Code, Section
2656F(d), terrorism is premeditated, politically motivated violence 
perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational or clandestine 
agents, usually intended to influence an audience.  By extension, 
international terrorism transcends national boundaries and involves the 
citizens, property, or territory of more than one country.

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 120


<dom> Domain: International Econonomics 


<title> Topic: Economic Impact of International Terrorism


<desc> Description:

Document will report on actual or alleged private sector economic consequences
of international terrorism.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on actual or alleged private sector economic consequences
of international terrorism.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will address the issue of how to calculate the private
sector economic consequences of the activities of international terrorists.
Reported consequences may be such information as corporate claims that a 
fall off in business resulted from customer fears over international 
terrorism, actual destruction of private property through terrorist acts, 
investments not made because of concerns over a  terrorist presence in an 
area of potential investment, etc..   NOT relevant are costs attributable to 
government actions.    


<con> Concept(s):

1. terrorist, terrorism, international terrorist (or terrorism)  


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

International Terrorism: as defined in Title 22 of the U.S. Code, Section
2656F(d), terrorism is premeditated, politically motivated violence 
perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational or clandestine 
agents, usually intended to influence an audience.  By extension, 
international terrorism transcends national boundaries and involves the 
citizens, property, or territory of more than one country.

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 121


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Death from Cancer


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss the life and death of a prominent U.S. person from a
specific form of cancer.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss the life and death of a prominent U.S. person from a
specific form of cancer.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide obituary information on a prominent U.S. 
person who died of an identified type of cancer.  In addition to the 
individual's name and cancer, the report must provide sufficient biographical
information for a determination of why the life and contributions of the 
individual were worthy of some comment upon death. In other words, a one or 
two line obituary is NOT sufficient.


<con> Concept(s):

1. cancer

2. death, obituary


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

<time> Time: current


</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 122


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: RDT&E of New Cancer Fighting Drugs 


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the research, development, testing, and evaluation
(RDT&E) of a new anti-cancer drug developed anywhere in the world.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the research, development, testing, and evaluation
(RDT&E) of a new anti-cancer drug developed anywhere in the world.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on any phase in the worldwide process of
bringing new cancer fighting drugs to market, from conceptualization to
government marketing approval.  The laboratory or company responsible for the
drug project, the specific type of cancer(s) which the drug is designed to
counter, and the chemical/medical properties of the drug must be identified.


<con> Concept(s):

1. cancer, leukemia

2. drug, chemotherapy


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 123


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Research into & Control of Carcinogens


<desc> Description:

Document will report on studies into linkages between environmental factors or
chemicals which might cause cancer, and/or it will report on governmental
actions to identify, control, or limit exposure to those factors or chemicals
which have been shown to be carcinogenic.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on studies into linkages between environmental factors or
chemicals which might cause cancer, and/or it will report on governmental
actions to identify, control, or limit exposure to those factors or chemicals
which have been shown to be carcinogenic.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on research into linkages between cancer and
environmental hazards and/or the efforts of governments to limit exposure of
their people to carcinogens.  The governmental action may be of any category,
e.g. entry into international agreements, enactment of domestic laws, issuance
of administrative regulations, support of carcinogen research, air and soil
sampling, launching of public education campaigns, etc.  


<con> Concept(s):

1. cancer, carcinogen

2. treaty, agreement, law, regulation, study, research, education, Super Fund


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 124


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Alternatives to Traditional Cancer Therapies


<desc> Description:

Document will report on innovative approaches to preventing or curing cancer.


<smry> Summary:

A relevant document will report on any attempt to experiment with or 
demonstrate the efficacy of any non-chemical, non-surgical, or 
non-radiological approach to preventing or curing cancer.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on any attempt to experiment with or 
demonstrate the efficacy of any non-chemical, non-surgical, or 
non-radiological approach to preventing or curing cancer.


<con> Concept(s):

1. cancer, cancer prevention, cancer cure

2. NOT chemotherapy, NOT surgery, NOT radiation


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 125


<dom> Domain: Law & Government 


<title> Topic: Anti-smoking Actions by Government


<desc> Description:

Document will describe actions by public authorities to limit the human use of
tobacco.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe actions by public authorities to limit the human use of
tobacco.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide at least one example of actions proposed 
or taken by public authorities anywhere in the world to limit or discourage 
the human use of tobacco.  Limits may take any regulatory or legal form 
appropriate to that jurisdiction, to include sales controls, limits on 
advertisement, mandatory warning labels, and establishment of no-smoking 
zones.  Court findings against tobacco companies (if any), as well as 
publicly financed anti-smoking campaigns and education programs, are to be 
considered as relevant forms of discouragement.  In addition, public funding 
of medical research into tobacco use is relevant information.  However, 
private anti-smoking initiatives, such as creating no-smoking areas, are NOT 
relevant unless traceable in origin to government action.  Also NOT relevant 
are contradictory, pro-tobacco government actions, such as tobacco price 
support programs and export encouragements.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  tobacco

2.  smoking, anti-smoking


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 126


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Medical Ethics and Modern Technology


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss ethical issues attendant to contemporary advances in 
medical technology.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss ethical issues attendant to contemporary advances in 
medical technology.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on non-traditional medical ethics issues 
which have been created by recent (post WWII) advances in medical science 
and/or the efforts of the medical community to deal with such ethical issues.
Relevant reports include those on such issues as the decision process for 
selecting organ transplant recipients, whether to place or remove a patient 
from a life-support machine ("when to pull the plug"), whether or not to 
employ advanced techniques on defective newborns, and the use of fetal 
tissue and human cells in biomedical research.  NOT relevant are reports on 
such traditional issues as abortion, mercy killing, and assisted suicide.  
Also NOT relevant are reports on the long-established legal/ethical issue of 
the right to privacy, as it relates to such contemporary public health 
problems as mandatory testing and contact tracing for AIDS.


<con> Concept(s):

1. medical ethics

2. hospital ethicist, medical ethics counseling

3. triage, terminally ill, abortion, assisted suicide

4. fetal tissue, organ transplant, life support machine, artificial 
insemination 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 127


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: U.S.-U.S.S.R. Arms Control Agreements


<desc> Description:

Document will report the terms of arms control agreements concluded, under 
negotiation, or proposed between the United States and the Soviet Union.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report the terms of arms control agreements concluded, under 
negotiation, or proposed between the United States and the Soviet Union.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document must provide specific information on U.S.-U.S.S.R. arms 
control agreements, such as the weapons covered, size of reduction, 
verification procedures, etc.  Debate in the U.S. Congress, or within Allied 
Nations or multilateral fora, is NOT relevant, unless such debates 
coincidentally provide new, concrete information on the terms of concluded, 
pending, or proposed arms control agreements. 


<con> Concept(s):

1. strategic arms limitation treaty, SALT, SALT II, START

2. intermediate range nuclear weapon, INF

3. medium-range nuclear missile, short-range nuclear weapon, nuclear testing,
 conventional arms

4. arms control, arms reduction, arms agreement, verification

5. Anti-ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty of 1972

6. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

<nat> Nationality: U.S.S.R.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  128


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Privatization of State Assets 
 

<desc> Description:  

Document discusses a current or future sale to the private sector, by a 
government or government entity, of a business, businesses, or shares of a 
business owned by the state.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses a current or future sale to the private sector, by a 
government or government entity, of a business, businesses, or shares of a 
business owned by the state.


<narr> Narrative:  

A relevant document will discuss a completed, ongoing, or  proposed sale to 
the private sector (e.g., offer to the public, or to a selected investor), 
by a government or government entity, of a business, businesses, or shares 
of a business owned by that government or government entity.  The business 
and the government or government entity must be identified.  A document 
which discusses privatization in general, privatization plans or a 
privatization program, but does not refer to a specific sale, is NOT relevant. 


<con> Concept(s):

1.  privatization effort, privatization plan, denationalization

2.  private sector

3.  sale, sell, offer

4.  stake, shares, stock, company


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time:  Current

<time> Time:  Future

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>

<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 129


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Soviet Spying on the U.S.


<desc> Description:

Document will report spying by the USSR within U.S. territory or against U.S. interests overseas.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report spying by the USSR within U.S. territory or against U.S. interests overseas.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss reported espionage by entities of the 
Soviet government - KGB, GRU, etc. - conducted within the territory of the 
United States of America, or against U.S. diplomatic or military facilities 
overseas.  Reported entrapment or involvement of U.S. citizens, residents, 
or employees in Soviet spying, be it overseas or within U.S. territory, is 
also relevant.  However, espionage cases involving states linked to the 
USSR - Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Cuba, etc. - are NOT relevant, unless 
linkage to Soviet intelligence can be demonstrated.


<con> Concept(s):

1. USSR, U.S.S.R., Soviet, KGB, GRU, diplomat

2. spy, agent, spying, espionage, intelligence

3. snoop, bug, compromise, penetrate

4. counterintelligence, FBI, CIA, Pentagon, State Department


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 130


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: Jewish Emigration and U.S.-USSR Relations


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the issue of Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union 
as it impacts on U.S.-Soviet relations.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the issue of Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union 
as it impacts on U.S.-Soviet relations.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on U.S. efforts to advance emigration 
freedom for Soviet Jews, USSR resistance to the permanent move of Jews to 
Israel or the U.S., and/or how the Jewish emigration issue affects 
U.S.-U.S.S.R. bilateral relations, as well as the relative positions of the 
two superpowers in the Middle East.


<con> Concept(s):

1. U.S., America, U.S.S.R., USSR, Soviet Union, Soviet, Israel, Middle East

2. Jew, Jewish

3. emigration, emigrate, emigre, refugee, exit visa

4. Jackson-Vanik Amendment

5. glasnost, refusenik

6. diplomatic relations, economic relations  


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 131


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: McDonnell Douglas Contracts for Military Aircraft


<desc> Description:

Document will identify and quantify a contract awarded to McDonnell Douglas 
for production of military aircraft.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify and quantify a contract awarded to McDonnell Douglas 
or its subsidiary corporations
for production of military aircraft.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide specified data on contracts awarded to 
McDonnell Douglas for the production of military aircraft for any nation, 
any military service, or of any aircraft type (interceptor, fighter-bomber, 
helicopter, etc.).  The contract must be for completed airframes, NOT 
contracts for aircraft development, factory tooling, components, spare parts,
services, etc.  To be relevant, the document also must specify the number of 
aircraft to be delivered, the dollar size of the contract, and the aircraft 
type sought.


<con> Concept(s):

1. McDonnell Douglas

2. contract, award

3. military, aircraft, fighter, interceptor, helicopter, transport

4. FA-18, AV-8B, C-17, F-15, AH-64A, EF-18A


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 132


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: "Stealth" Aircraft 


<desc> Description:

Document will provide cost, technical, and/or performance data on U.S. 
"stealth" aircraft projects.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide cost, technical, and/or performance data on U.S. 
"stealth" aircraft projects.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will contain specific information on the design, 
assembly, and testing of "stealth" (radar-evading) fighters and bombers of 
the United States Air Force, and/or provide data indicative of the costs, 
characteristics, and performance of such aircraft.  Relevant information 
includes, but is not limited to, expenditures associated with stealth 
projects, technology reportedly used or to be used, locations associated 
with assembly or testing of the aircraft, information on performance 
(demonstrated or projected), and identification of contractors or 
subcontractors on stealth projects (excepting reports simply identifying the 
publicly known prime contractors for the stealth fighter and stealth bomber, 
Lockheed and Northrop, respectively).  Reports on flight tests or combat use 
of stealth aircraft are NOT relevant, unless technical or performance data 
are explicitly provided.


<con> Concept(s):

1. stealth, stealth fighter, stealth bomber, advanced technology bomber

2. radar evading, radar evasion

3. skunk works, black program, F-19


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 133


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology 


<title> Topic: Hubble Space Telescope


<desc> Description:

Document will describe some design feature of the Hubble Space Telescope.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe some design feature or capability of the Hubble
Space Telescope.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on the instruments, components, 
controls, capabilities, or other technical features of the Hubble Space 
Telescope.  Reports on delays in launching, or the actual launch of the 
Hubble, are NOT relevant.  In addition, only initial reports which 
technically detail the telescope's flawed mirror, how the defect will impact 
the telescope's effectiveness, or how the flaw will be corrected, are 
relevant.  Further references to the defective mirror, particularly 
political or non-scientific discussion of the mistake (or the project 
generally), are NOT relevant.  Also, references to the Hubble Constant, or 
the scientist for whom both the telescope and the astronomical term were 
named, are NOT relevant.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  Hubble Space Telescope, HST, space telescope


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 134


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: The Human Genome Project


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the objectives, processes, and organization of the 
human genome project.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the objectives, processes, and organization of the 
human genome project.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on the purposes, strategies, technologies, 
funding, and/or management of the human genome project.  Although they may be
scientifically pertinent, reports on general biomedical, genetic, and cell 
chemistry research, as well as related technologies, are NOT relevant to 
this topic unless they are explicitly linked to the human genome project.


<con> Concept(s):

1. human genome, human genome initiative, human gene mapping

2. gene mapping, DNA sequencing

3. genetic marker, DNA segments


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Human Genome Project: a largely U.S. funded "big science" project whose 
initial purpose is to map the nucleic acid sequences within the more than 
50,000 genes carried on the 23 human chromosomes.  Described differently, 
the project "is to produce a database listing the exact sequence of three 
billion base pairs along a single strand of human genetic material."

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 135


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Possible Contributions of Gene Mapping to Medicine


<desc> Description:

Document will report on efforts to locate and describe genes linked to 
inherited human diseases and/or report on the potential medical 
contributions such information might yield.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on efforts to locate and describe genes linked to 
inherited human diseases and/or report on the potential medical 
contributions such information might yield.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on any of the following: gene mapping 
research aimed at locating specific genes involved in those human diseases 
where genetic cause or predisposition have been implicated, attempts to 
describe the molecular structure and chemical defects of suspect genes (in 
either single gene or polygenic diseases), the development of diagnostic 
tests at the gene level, and research into possible treatments which might 
result from locating and analyzing genes involved in inherited human diseases.
Reports on laboratory techniques or research projects which may aid the 
general fields of genetics and molecular biology, but which do not directly 
link the procedure or project to the study or treatment of a human genetic 
disease, are NOT relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1. genetic disease, inherited disease, hereditary disease

2. gene mapping, DNA sequencing

3. gene therapy, gene test

4. chromosome analysis, DNA technology, genetic marker


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 136


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Diversification by Pacific Telesis


<desc> Description:

Document will report on attempts by Pacific Telesis to diversify beyond its 
basic business of providing local telephone service.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on attempts by Pacific Telesis to diversify beyond its 
basic business of providing local telephone service.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will give information on moves by Pacific Telesis to 
expand and diversify into information services, cellular radio, and other 
businesses outside its regulated activity of providing local telephone 
service in California and Nevada.  NOT relevant to diversification moves by 
Pacific Telesis is such information as developments in local telephone 
service, financial issues (telephone rates, stock prices, and earnings 
reports), legal actions, labor conflicts, etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Pacific Telesis

2. diversification, diversify, new business, subsidiary, acquisition, 
non-telephone operations, consortium

3. NOT local telephone service; NOT upgrades to regional telephone system; 
NOT telephone rates, stock prices, or earnings; NOT legal or regulatory 
actions; NOT labor conflicts; NOT personnel actions.


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Pacific Telesis: a San Francisco-based regional telephone operating company.
Pacific Telesis is one of the seven "baby bells" formed from the break-up of 
AT&T.  Along with Ameritech, Nynex, US West, Southwestern Bell Corp, Bell 
Atlantic Group, and Bell South Group, Pacific Telesis was given responsibility
for providing local telephone service in its assigned area, as well as 
afforded the opportunity of diversifying into a wide-range of other 
businesses, with some exceptions, such as the former Bell System's long 
distance service which was retained by AT&T.

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 137


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Expansion in the U.S. Theme Park Industry


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the building of a new or on the expansion/upgrade of 
an existing theme park by a U.S. corporation in the United States or overseas.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the building of a new or on the expansion/upgrade of 
an existing theme park by a U.S. corporation in the United States or overseas.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on plans by U.S. corporations to build a new 
theme park, to enlarge an existing theme or amusement park, or to add a new 
attraction to an existing park.  Reports on developments in overseas theme 
parks in which U.S. interests have a substantial equity or management 
position are also relevant.  However, reports on mergers and acquisitions 
which do not add to plant or capacity in the theme park industry are NOT 
relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1. theme park, amusement park, entertainment facility

2. build, construct, develop, enlarge, expand, upgrade

3. Disney, Busch, Universal, Six Flags, MCA, Sea World

4. NOT sale, purchase, merger, or acquisition


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 138


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Iranian Support for Lebanese Hostage-takers


<desc> Description:

Document will give data linking Iran to groups in Lebanon which seize and 
hold Western hostages.


<smry> Summary:

Document will give explicit information linking Iran to groups in
Lebanon which seize and hold Western hostages.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide explicit information which supports (or 
counters) the allegation that elements in the Iranian government encourage, 
influence, financially support, and/or direct the activities of such 
Lebanese groups as Hezbollah in the taking and holding of U.S. and European 
hostages.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Iran, Tehran, Iranian Interior Ministry, Revolutionary Guard Corps, 
patron, sponsor, mentor

2. Ayatollah Khomeini, Ali Akbar Mohtashemi (AKA Mohtashami-Pur), Abdollah 
Nouri, Hashemi Rafsanjani, Mohsen Rafiq-Dust, Hosein Sheikholislam

3. Lebanon, Syria, Bekaa Valley

4. Hezbollah, Party of God, Special Security Apparatus, Revolutionary 
Justice Organization, Organization for the Oppressed on Earth (AKA Oppressed 
of the Earth), Amal

5. Immad Mughniyeh (AKA Imad Mugniyah), Sheik Fadlallah, Sheik Obeid, Abed 
Yunis, Mustafa Khorshid, Hussein Ghabris, Hussein Khalil, Hussein Mousawi, 
Abbas Musawi, Hamadi

6. hostage, captive, hostage-taker, terrorist

7. kidnap, seize, hostage-taking

8. negotiate, bargain, talk, ransom, release, threat, kill


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 139


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Iran's Islamic Revolution - Domestic and Foreign Social 
Consequences


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the religious, legal, cultural, and social 
consequences of Iran's Islamic Revolution within Iran and abroad.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the religious, legal, cultural, and social 
consequences of Iran's Islamic Revolution within Iran and abroad.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information which facilitates analysis of 
the non-political impact of Iran's Islamic Revolution on the people of Iran, 
as well as Muslims and others outside Iran.  Relevant data on the religious, 
legal, cultural, and social dimensions of the Islamic Revolution should help 
describe how Ayatollah Khomeini's overthrow of the Shah impacted, and 
continues to impact, the lives of people. NOT relevant are reports focused 
on the human and economic losses associated with the Iran-Iraq War.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Iran, Tehran, Qom, Ayatollah Khomeini

2. Islamic Revolution, Islamic Republic, Shiite, fundamentalism, Muslim, 
Moslem

3. women, chador, Islamic veil, headscarf

4. beard, village, hamlet

5. blasphemy, zealot, fanatic, repression, martyrdom, revolutionary guards

6. Salman Rushdie, Nazia Hassan, writer, artist, singer, television

7. NOT politics, NOT war, NOT elections, NOT international relations


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 140


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Political Impact of Islamic Fundamentalism


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the political impact of Islamic fundamentalism within any nation other than Iran.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the political impact of Islamic fundamentalism within any nation other than Iran.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on the increase outside Iran of 
Islamic fundamentalism, among both Sunni and Shiite adherents, and how the 
strengthening of the Islamic fundamentalist movement has, or potentially can,
effect the structures, politics, and policies of national governments.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Islamic fundamentalism, Islamization, shari'a (shariah)

2. Muslim Brotherhood, Hamas, Islamic Salvation Front, Al-Nahdah, Muslim 
Mujahedin, Jama'at-e Islami, Mujahedin-e Khalq, Hezbollah (AKA Hizbullah), 
al-Takfir Wal-Hijrah, Moro Liberation Front

3. Hassan el-Turabi (AKA Hassan Turabi), Gulbeddin Hekmatyar, Shah Massoud, 
Mohammed Zia-ul-Haq (President Zia), Ayatollah Khoi, Safar Hawali, Muhammad 
Husain Fadlullah (AKA Sheik Fadlallah), Abbas al-Madani

4. Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, 
Sudan, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, Philippines

5. NOT-Iran


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 141


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Japan's Handling of its Trade Surplus with the U.S.


<desc> Description:

Document will report on Japanese efforts to deal with U.S. complaints 
regarding Japan's surplus in bilateral trade.  


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on Japanese efforts to deal with U.S. complaints 
regarding Japan's surplus in bilateral trade.  


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will reveal Japanese government or government-inspired 
actions designed to reduce the gap or ameliorate frictions resulting from 
Japan's continuing surplus in bilateral trade with the U.S.  The report must 
identify concrete actions which are traceable to the Japanese government. 
NOT relevant would be promises or proposals.  Similarly, analyses of the 
U.S.-Japan trade relationship, trade negotiations, or political commentary 
thereon, are NOT relevant.  Also, such economic data as foreign exchange and 
interest rate movements, corporate initiatives, or stock and bond market 
changes are NOT relevant, unless such information is explicitly linked to 
Japanese government efforts to deal with the bilateral trade surplus.    


<con> Concept(s):

1. Japan, Japanese government, Ministry of International Trade and Industry, 
MITI

2. U.S., Department of Commerce, U.S. Trade Representative

3. trade surplus, deficit, gap, imbalance, dispute

4. free trade, managed trade, barriers to trade, structural impediments


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Japan and U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 142


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: Impact of Government Regulated Grain Farming on International 
Relations


<desc> Description:

Document will show how and why national governments supervise and protect 
their own growers of grain and/or how these policies impact a nation's 
foreign trade and diplomatic relations.


<smry> Summary:

Document will show how or why national governments supervise and protect 
their own growers of grain or how these policies impact a nation's 
foreign trade and diplomatic relations.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will demonstrate specifically how a government anywhere 
in the world protects domestic production of grains (such as corn, rice, and 
wheat), provide the rationale for such policies (if available), and/or 
demonstrate the linkage between such domestic agricultural policies and a 
nation`s foreign trade and diplomatic relations.


<con> Concept(s):

1. export subsidies, export restitution, import quotas, farm-trade barriers

2. price supports, farm subsidies, agricultural supports

3. self-sufficiency, embargo, import dependence, high quality food supply, 
farm interests

4. grain, animal feed, corn, rice, wheat

5. foreign trade, trade negotiations, agricultural policy

6. EC's Common Agricultural Policy, Japan's Ministry of Agriculture, 
Forestry, and Fisheries, Zenchu, Liberal Democratic Party, LDP, U.S.'s 
Export Enchancement Program, food importing countries


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 143


<dom> Domain: U.S. Politics 


<title> Topic: Why Protect U.S. Farmers?


<desc> Description:

Document will contribute to an analysis of how and why, and at what cost, 
the U.S. federal government protects, supports, and controls U.S. farming.


<smry> Summary:

Document will contribute to an analysis of how or at what cost, 
the U.S. federal government protects, supports, and controls U.S. farming.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will describe actions taken by the U.S. government to 
protect U.S. farmers; or, reveal how farm price supports, export subsidies, 
import quotas, and other special farm policies impact the rural economy, as 
well as consumer costs and the federal budget; or, indicate a rationale used 
to justify farm support policies; or, show the relationship between 
agricultural policies and Congressional politics; or, suggest how national 
farm policies distort the "free" functioning of the agricultural sector of 
the national economy.


<con> Concept(s):

1. farm policy, farm exports, price supports, farm subsidy, deficiency 
payment, set-aside, supply controls, payment-in-kind, PIK, program crops, 
export subsidies, import quotas, crop base, production controls

2. Export Enhancement Program, EEP, Agriculture Adjustment Act, Targeted 
Export Assistance, TEA

3. rural districts, farm state, farming, farmers, agricultural sector

4. U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agriculture Department, USDA, U.S. Congress


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 144


<dom> Domain: International Politics


<title> Topic: Management Problems at the United Nations


<desc> Description:

Document will report on alleged corruption, incompetence, or inefficiency in 
the management of the United Nation's staff, activities, or specialized 
agencies.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on alleged corruption, incompetence, or inefficiency in 
the management of the United Nation's staff, activities, or specialized 
agencies.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on management effectiveness by 
the United Nations, its specialized agencies, or in its running of such 
activities as peace keeping and relief operations.  Allegations of management
failings, as well as retorts to such charges, are relevant.  However, 
charges of ideological bias or disputes over political and policy issues are 
NOT relevant.  The focus is management effectiveness, or the lack thereof.


<con> Concept(s):

1. United Nations, UN, Secretary General, United Nations Educational, 
Scientific, and Cultural Organization, UNESCO, Food and Agricultural 
Organization, FAO, World Health Organization, WHO, United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, peace keeping

2. mismanagement, corruption, incompetence, inefficiency, ineffectiveness, 
overhead, extravagance, administrative costs

3. secretariat, international civil servants, bureaucracy

4. reform, budget controls, accounting, financial analysis, retrenchment


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 145


<dom> Domain: U.S. Politics 


<title> Topic: Influence of the "Pro-Israel Lobby"


<desc> Description:

Document will describe how, and how effectively, the so-called "pro-Israel 
lobby" operates in the United States.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe attempts by the so-called "pro-Israel 
lobby" to influence United States policy.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify and/or discuss the effectiveness of an 
organization, individual, or mechanism employed by the so-called "pro-Israel 
lobby" to advance the interests of the State of Israel within the United 
States and its government.  Particularly useful would be a document which 
shows the lobby's impact on a specific policy decision by the U.S. government.


<con> Concept(s):

1. zionism, American Jews, Jewish community, U.S. Jewish leaders

2. aid to Israel, military assistance, campaign contribution

3. U.S. arms sales to Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, or Kuwait

4. U.S. supporters of Israel, pro-Israel congressman or senator, pro-Israel 
lobbyist, Jewish lobby 

5. American Jewish Congress, United Jewish Appeal, UJA, American Israel 
Public Affairs Committee, AIPAC, New Israel Fund, Committee for Economic 
Growth of Israel, Jewish Institute for National Security Affairs

6. Mossad, CIA, Israeli intelligence

7. dual loyalty, Jonathan Pollard, Pollard spy case, Rafael Eitan, Aviem 
Sella 


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S. and Israel

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 146


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: Negotiating an End to the Nicaraguan Civil War


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the negotiating process leading to an end to the 
Nicaraguan civil war.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the negotiating process leading to an end to the 
Nicaraguan civil war.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on proposals for peace, 
negotiations on such proposals, terms of any agreements reached, problems in 
implementing agreements, or successful implementation of any agreement 
designed to facilitate an end to the civil war in Nicaragua.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Nicaragua, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala 

2. United States, Cuba, USSR, Soviet Union, Central America

3. Sandinista, Contra, Managua

4. peace talks, truce, cease-fire, elections, disarmament, nonlethal aid, 
turbista, La Prensa

5. Arias Plan, President Oscar Arias Sanchez, Oscar Arias

6. Daniel Ortega, Adolfo Calero, Aristides Sanchez, Violeta Chamorro, 
Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo, Cardinal Obando

7. Fidel Castro, Jose Napolean Duarte, Alfredo Cristiani, Vinicio Cerezo, 
Jose Azcona


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 147


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Productivity Trends in the U.S. Economy


<desc> Description:

Document will provide productivity statistics on the U.S. economy.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide productivity statistics on the U.S. economy.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will contain some macroeconomic datum useful in charting 
long-term productivity trends in the U.S. economy.  Because useful in 
checking and calibrating aggregate figures, productivity statistics for 
specific sectors of the U.S. economy could be useful.  However, statistics 
for individual enterprises, because not available in sufficient numbers, are 
NOT relevant.  Also NOT relevant, unless containing confirmable productivity 
statistics, are reports on political discussions or press commentaries on 
the state of the U.S. economy.


<con> Concept(s):

1. productivity plus United States

2. productivity plus trend, data, statistics, ratios, reports

3. productivity plus gains, growth, improvement, drop, decline, change

4. gross national product, GNP, growth rate, standard of living

5. recession, slump  


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 148


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: Conflict in the Horn of Africa


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the Ethiopia-Somalia War, civil wars within those 
nations, and/or the movement of refugees fleeing armed conflicts between or 
within Ethiopia and Somalia.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on military and diplomatic development in the
Ethiopia-Somalia War or on the civil wars in Ethiopia or Somialia.
All refugee movements caused by these wars are also of interest.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on the course of the 
Ethiopia-Somalia War (military and diplomatic developments), rebellions 
within Ethiopia, attempts to overthrow the Siad Barre regime in Somalia, 
and/or population movements within Ethiopia and Somalia, as well as refugee 
movements in and out of the neighboring states of Djibouti, Kenya, and Sudan.


<con> Concept(s):

1. war, conflict

2. civil war, insurgency, coup, famine, guerrilla, refugee

3. Horn of Africa, Ethiopia, Somalia

4. Eritrea, Tigre (Tigray), Wollo (Wello), Addis Ababa

5. Kenya, Sudan, Djibouti

6. Eritrean People's Liberation Front, EPLF, Oromo Liberation Front

7. Mengistu, Siad Barre


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 149


<dom> Domain: Law and Government 


<title> Topic: Industrial Espionage


<desc> Description:

Document will report on industrial espionage.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on specific instances of industrial espionage,
including insider trading, or the actions of governments to prevent
the theft of economic secrets through legislation, regulation, or law
enforcement.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on alleged or demonstrated acts 
of industrial espionage committed by agencies of any nation, by any 
corporation seeking information on a competitor through apparently illegal 
acts, or by private individuals seeking to collect and sell propietary 
information. The espionage may be through any means -- electronic 
surveillance, bribery of employees, theft of documents, etc. -- whose 
purpose is to obtain technological or corporate secrets.  Also relevant are 
the actions of governments to prevent the theft of economic secrets through 
legislation, regulation, or law enforcement.  NOT relevant are such legally 
permissable actions as market research, hiring of consultants, and analysis 
of publicly available documents.  



<con> Concept(s):

1. industrial espionage, electronic surveillance, eavesdropping, electronic 
theft, inside information, market intelligence, industrial intelligence 
gathering, economic secrets, economic intelligence

2. industrial spy, disgruntled employee, electronic thief 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 150


<dom> Domain: U.S. Politics 


<title> Topic: U.S. Political Campaign Financing


<desc> Description:

Document will report how U.S. politicians finance their election campaigns 
and/or moves to "reform" campaign finance practices.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report how U.S. politicians finance their election
campaigns (including honorariums) and/or moves to "reform" campaign
finance practices.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will show how U.S. politicians (federal, state, or 
local --  individually or as a group) pay for their election campaigns, the 
role played by "special interests" and contributors in the electoral process,
allegations or evidence of campaign contributions buying political favors, 
and/or proposals to limit the cost of campaigns or "reform" electoral 
finance practices.


<con> Concept(s):

1. campaign finance, campaign contribution, fund raising, political 
donation, honorarium, mother's milk of politics

2. campaign finance reform, public financing, ethics law

3. special interest, rich contributor, fat cat, lobbyist, political action 
committee, PAC

4. access-buying, political favor, electoral corruption


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>







<top>

<num> Number:  151


<title> Topic:  Coping with overcrowded prisons

<desc> Description:

The document will provide information on jail and prison overcrowding and 
how inmates are forced to cope with those conditions; or it will reveal 
plans to relieve the overcrowded condition.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will describe scenes of overcrowding that have 
become all too common in jails and prisons around the country.  The 
document will identify how inmates are forced to cope with those 
overcrowded conditions, and/or what the Correctional System is doing, 
or planning to do, to alleviate the crowded condition.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 152


<title> Topic:  Accusations of Cheating by Contractors on U.S. Defense Projects

<desc> Description:

Document will refer to an alleged illegality committed by any entity 
seeking a contract on behalf of the U.S. Military Forces.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will mention an alleged impropriety or improprieties 
by individuals or entities (companies, corporations), either domestic or 
foreign, attempting to provide services or products related to the U.S. 
military effort.  To be relevant, document will specifically:

(1) identify the wrongdoer, and
(2) describe in at least general terms (e.g., overcharging, bribing, 
swindling, illegal gifts, bid-riggings found, insider information) the 
nature of the wrongdoing.


</top>
<top>

<num> Number:  153


<title> Topic:  Insurance Coverage which pays for Long Term Care

<desc> Description:

Document will discuss insurance coverage for long term care confinements.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss an existing or proposed insurance 
plan (governmental, commercial or individual) and the coverage it 
provides for long term care confinements in an institution or home care.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  154


<title> Topic:  Oil Spills

<desc> Description:

Document will identify major oil spills throughout the world.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will note the location of the spill, 
amount of oil spilled, and the responsible corporation,
if known. This will include shipborne accidents, offshore
drilling and holding tank spills, but should not include
intentional spills such as Iraq/Kuwait or leakage from
broken pipes.  References to legislation brought about 
by a spill, litigation and clean up efforts associated
with a spill are not relevant unless specifics of the
spill are included.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  155 


<title> Topic: Right Wing Christian Fundamentalism in U.S. 

<desc> Description:

Document will discuss implications of the decision of Right Wing 
Christian Fundamentalist Groups to use the political process to
further their goals.
 
<narr>  Narrative:

Leaders of Right Wing Christian Fundamentalist Groups, such as, 
Christian Coalition, have begun a Grass Roots Campaign to enter
the political process at local, state and national levels to
further their "Religious Agenda."  Relevant documents may be
feature articles, editorial comments, news items, letters to
editor, etc.  Particularly relevant are perceptions of threats
of this movement to civil liberties, government stability and to
the U.S. Constitution.  This search will be confined to the U.S.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  156 


<title> Topic: Efforts to enact Gun Control Legislation 

<desc> Description:

Documents will relate to efforts to enact Gun Control Legislation.
They may also discuss implication upon and interpretation of the
Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution as it relates to these
efforts.

<narr>  Narrative:

Any discussion of Gun Control -- Pro or Con -- in editorials, 
letters to editor, news items, etc.  This will include efforts
at gun control at all political levels -- city, county, state,
and federal.  Of particular interest are discussions which relate
these efforts to the broader issue of just what relevance does the
Second Amendment have to the question.  This search will be limited
to U.S. efforts.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number: 157 


<title> Topic: Causes and treatments of multiple sclerosis (MS) 

<desc> Description:

Documents will focus on studies as to causes of multiple sclerosis
and on research efforts to develop treatments and/or cures for it.

<narr>  Narrative:

This search will be somewhat limiting in that it focuses on one 
particular medical condition among a broader group which are 
thought to be caused by the auto-immune system.  Efforts will 
be directed toward finding any reports of new ideas of cause 
as well as elaboration on the auto-immune theories.  The search
will focus also on research efforts to find treatments to alleviate
the symptoms of MS and/or to discover possible cures for it.  The
names of companies involved and the particular drug or therapy 
should be a part of the relevant item.  Also relevant would be
non-medical or alternative healing procedures which find acceptance
among MS sufferers, e.g., bee venom, acupuncture, etc.
 
</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  158 


<title> Topic: Term limitations for members of the U.S. Congress 

<desc> Description:

Documents will relate the issues involved in these controversial
proposals to try to place limits on the number of terms members
of Congress can serve consecutively.

<narr>  Narrative:

Any discussion of the subject of limiting the number of consecutive
terms a member of the U.S. House of Representative or a member of the
U.S. Senate may serve whether in editorials, letters to the editor,
news items, etc. is to be considered.  The search should consider
efforts which originate at Grass Root Level as Referenda, at the 
state level as discussions or even enactment of laws and at the
national level.  Integral to this search are the underlying U.S.
Constitutional Qualifications for a member of Congress.  Discussions
and arguments pro and con on just what effect interpretations of
the Constitution might have on term limitation efforts.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  159 


<title> Topic: Electric Car Development 

<desc> Description:

A relevant document will provide information on work already
done, or being done, to develop an electric car.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a specified Government,
or a commercial company that has developed or is in the
process of developing an electric car which is feasible 
for public use on public highways and city streets (e.g.,
Los Angeles, California).  Documents which only provide
information about future plans for the development of an
electric car, or a battery are not relevant.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number: 160


<title> Topic: Vitamins - The Cure for or Cause of
Human Ailments 

<desc> Description:

Document will identify vitamins that have contributed to the
cure for human diseases or ailments or documents will identify
vitamins that have caused health problems in humans.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information indicating 
that vitamins may help to prevent or cure human ailments.  
Information indicating that vitamins may cause health 
problems in humans is also relevant.  A document that makes
a general reference to vitamins such as "good for your health"
or "having nutritional value" is not relevant.  Information
about research being conducted without results would not be
relevant.  References to derivatives of vitamins are to be 
treated as the vitamin.
 
</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  161


<title> Topic: Acid Rain  

<desc> Description:

Document will provide information on the problems and actions 
associated with what is known as acid rain.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document should include any of the problem areas associated
with what is known as acid rain.  Relevant data would include such 
areas as the source, possible cause, actions taken to correct or
eliminate, and the areas of the country/world affected.  Other items
of interest would be any joint nation agreements/actions, legislative
actions, and data or comments on the cost of clean up versus the 
benefits to be gained.  Not relevant documents would be those that
contain only general comments on the subject with no real facts or
recommendations or those deemed to be politically motivated.  Also
documents containing only generalized or brief statements on upcoming
visits, meetings, legislation related to the acid rain problem would
be non-relevant unless they contain specific facts relating to the 
acid rain problem.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  162 


<title> Topic: Automobile Recalls 

<desc> Description:

Document will provide data that expands on the type and purpose of
recalls on vehicles manufactured by American or Foreign automobile
companies.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will provide data on the recall of vehicles to 
fix, modify, or replace defective components.  Relevant data would
include recall data on vehicles produced by American or Foreign
manufacturers and would include the name of the company, make/model
of the vehicle, and the purpose of the recall.  The numbers of 
vehicles involved is desired, but not essential.  Legal actions or
court decisions would also be desired, but are not necessary to be
relevant.  Trucks and buses should be considered the same as an
auto for the purpose of relevancy.  Not relevant would be suggested
recalls that have not been substantiated or ordered by the company
or Government.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  163 


<title> Topic:  Vietnam Veterans and Agent Orange 

<desc> Description:

While serving in South Vietnam, a number of U.S. Soldiers were
reported as having been exposed to the defoliant Agent Orange.
The issue is veterans entitlement, or the awarding of monetary
compensation and/or medical assistance for physical damages
caused by Agent Orange.

<narr>  Narrative:

Relevant documents will discuss veterans suffering from cancer 
and other ailments allegedly caused by Agent Orange; the 
document will also relate the awarding of compensation to the
veteran, or the veterans attempt to obtain compensation.
Documents which discuss medically ailing children born to a
veteran who had been exposed to Agent Orange are also relevant.
Official studies are relevant, but articles which simply 
reference the Agent Orange problem are not relevant.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  164 


<title> Topic:  Generic Drugs - Illegal Activities by Manufacturers 

<desc> Description:

Document will report FDA or Congressional investigations concerning
illegal activities by generic drug manufacturers.

<narr>  Narrative:

To be relevant a document must identify a specific generic drug
company being investigated by the FDA or Congress.  It also must
identify the drug, i.e., the generic drug for Zantac.  A vague
reference to a type of drug, such as pain killer or muscle
relaxer is not relevant.  A general reference to generic drugs
and related problems (quality-control or drug scandals) without
specifics is not relevant.  Recalls of specific generic drugs 
that did not live up to FDA standards are relevant.  Disputes 
between drug manufacturers concerning the quality or sales of
generic versus name brand drugs including lawsuits are not
relevant.
 
</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  165 


<title> Topic: Tobacco company advertising and the young 

<desc> Description:

A document will provide information on what is a widely held
opinion that the tobacco industry aims its advertising at the
young.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document must report on tobacco company advertising
and its relation to young people.  A relevant document can
address either side of the question:  (1) Do tobacco companies
consciously target the young, or (2) As the tobacco industry 
argues, is this an erroneous public perception.  The "young"
may be identified as youth, children, adolescents, teenagers,
high school students, and college students.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  166 


<title> Topic: Standardized testing and cultural bias 

<desc> Description:

A document must provide information on charges that standardized
testing of applicants to the college level is biased against
racial minorities, women, and the poor.

<narr>  Narrative:

In addition to a direct charge that standardized testing is
biased, a relevant document could report on the fact that the
average test scores for middle and upper class males are higher
than the average scores of blacks, Hispanics, women and the poor,
a fact that members of those groups interpret as evidence of 
bias.  Standardized tests include the PSAT, the SAT, the ACT, 
and any state-administered test.  Testing for the grant of
scholarships or for advanced placement would be relevant.  
Criticism of the make-up of the tests, efforts to change the
make-up of the tests, or the abandonment of the tests by
certain colleges would be relevant.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  167 


<title> Topic: Regulation of the showing of violence and explicit
sex in motion picture theaters, on television, and on video 
cassettes. 

<desc> Description:

A relevant document must report on efforts taken in the USA or
abroad to regulate in any way the portrayal of violence and sex
scenes in the movies, on television or videos.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document could report on governmental or self-regulation.
Documents reporting on the efficacy of the movie rating system, or
proposed changes to that system would be relevant.  Items on the
refusal of newspapers and magazines to carry advertisements for
certain movies would be relevant.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  168 


<title> Topic: Financing AMTRAK 

<desc> Description:

A document will address the role of the Federal Government in
financing the operation of the National Railroad Transportation
Corporation (AMTRAK).

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document must provide information on the government's
responsibility to make AMTRAK an economically viable entity.  It
could also discuss the privatization of AMTRAK as an alternative
to continuing government subsidies.  Documents comparing government  
subsidies given to air and bus transportation with those provided
to AMTRAK would also be relevant.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  169 


<title> Topic:  Cost of Garbage/Trash Removal 

<desc> Description:

Document will report problems with garbage or trash removal and 
identify a related cost figure for a household or government     
entity (local, state, or federal).
 
<narr>  Narrative:

To be relevant a document will identify a problem concerning 
garbage/trash removal and include a cost figure for a household,
city, state, or federal government.  A document that reports 
garbage problems without referring to costs is not relevant.  
A document that reports penalties for not adhering to 
regulations is not relevant.  References to garbage/trash
removal as being "costly" or "expensive" without actual figures
are not relevant.  A document that identifies costs for 
recycling is relevant.  Documents that identify how much a
landfill site survey, furnace, etc. may cost without a 
specific purchase are not relevant.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  170 


<title> Topic: The Consequences of Implantation of Silicone Gel 
Breast Devices 

<desc> Description:

Document will discuss the use of silicone gel breast implants
manufactured by Dow-Corning Corporation and recipient`s concerns 
regarding future medical problems that may occur as a result of
manufacturing defects or lack of proper testing before approval
for general public use.

<narr>  Narrative:

To be relevant a document must provide pertinent data on the
risks associated with silicone gel breast implants, including
identified residual effects.  Documents that identify Dow-Corning
Corporation as the manufacturer of the device are particularly
significant.  Statements issued by the FDA regarding implant`s
safety and reliability, and technological advances in testing
procedures to assist in the identification of future problem
areas are considered relevant.  

Pending or concluded litigation against the Dow-Corning 
Corporation which has been initiated by implant recipients is 
not relevant unless it provides a specific strategy of the 
Corporation to alert the public to the risks involved.  

Foreign government's actions regarding the use of
silicone gel implants are not relevant.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  171 


<title> Topic:  Use of Mutual Funds in an Individual's    
Retirement Strategy 

<desc> Description:

Document will discuss the role of mutual funds as an
investment alternative in formulating an individual's
retirement program.

<narr>  Narrative:

To be relevant a document will address the role/use of
mutual funds as an integral part of an individuals     
investment retirement program, including Individual
Retirement Accounts (IRA) which are assigned/designated.
The document must identify the specific type of fund; i.e., 
income, stock, bond, etc., the reason for its selection 
when compared to other types of funds available, and in 
concert with the needs and capabilities of the individual 
investor.  The names of individual funds, companies 
administering the funds or funds portfolio managers are 
not relevant unless they identify a unique option or 
feature not commonly available to the investor in other
financial programs utilized in retirement planning. 

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  172 


<title> Topic: The Effectiveness of Medical Products and
Related Programs Utilized in the Cessation of Smoking. 

<desc> Description:

Document will identify the effectiveness of the use of 
medical products and related psychological/psychiatric
services in the cessation of smoking.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document must provide substantive information
on the effectiveness of U.S. Government approved medical
products and psychological or psychiatric programs,
including group therapy, used to reduce or stop the
use of tobacco products.  The document must identify the
producer of the medical product, the name under which the
product is marketed and specific information regarding
its effectiveness when known or derived through clinical 
studies.  Related services utilized in treatment must 
identify the specific type of program and include  
statements regarding their effectiveness.  Generalized
statements regarding overall health issues associated
with tobacco products are not relevant.  The use of 
foreign government's products presently under review by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is relevant,
provided the product is available to the consumer on a
medically approved temporary license.  Smoking bans are
not relevant unless the document addresses a long term
reduction in consumption of the products.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  173 


<title> Topic:  Smoking Bans 

<desc> Description:

Document will provide data on smoking bans initiated worldwide
in the public and private sector workplace, on various modes of
public transportation, and in commercial advertising.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document would include data on smoking bans that have
been initiated worldwide in the workplace, on various modes of
transportation, and in commercial advertising.  Relevant 
information would include such data as who initiated the ban,
affected areas, enforcement policy/procedures if any, and any
penalties that may be imposed.  Also relevant would be tobacco
company reactions, legislation imposing a smoking ban, and
legal actions or court decisions pertaining to a smoking ban.
Not relevant would be documents containing public or private
sector comments on smoking in general but not related to a 
specific ban.  Also not relevant would be documents related
to health hazards associated with smoking and not referring
to a smoking ban.
 
</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  174 


<title> Topic:  Hazardous Waste Cleanup 

<desc> Description:

Document will provide data on the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act known as the 
Superfund Hazardous Waste Cleanup Program.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document would provide data on what is referred
to as the Superfund Hazardous Waste Cleanup Program.  Relevant
data would be in such areas as information on how much money
is in the approved EPA budget to support the Superfund; goals
and policies of the program; cleanup problems created by the
Superfund Law and associated costs, if known; numbers of sites
on the cleanup list; effectiveness of the program; as well
as actions taken in response to the Superfund Law.  Also 
relevant would be data on actions taken by the EPA to recover
costs as well as any court decisions made in response to 
Superfund actions.  Documents that discuss hazardous waste
operations in general with only reference to Superfund would  
be considered as not relevant.  Data on proposed budget dollar
figures as well as politically motivated statements on the
Superfund Program would not be relevant.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  175 


<title> Topic:  NRA Prevention of Gun Control Legislation 

<desc> Description:

Document will report occasions on which the NRA engaged in
actions which prevented the passage of legislation designed
to reduce the proliferation of guns.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will contain specific instances in which
gun control legislation was defeated through the efforts of
the National Rifle Association.  Such instances will include
NRA influence to affect a popular vote on proposed legislation
as well as the use of gun lobbyists to influence legislators
engaged in such voting.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number: 176 


<title> Topic: Real-life private investigators

<desc> Description:

Document must refer to the hiring of a private
investigator in real-life or describe the work
of a private investigator.

<narr>  Narrative:

Private detectives can be self-employed or work 
for a private agency.  Document can describe the 
work of private detectives in general without 
citing a specific person.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  177 


<title> Topic: English as the Official Language in U.S. 

<desc> Description:

Document will provide arguments supporting the making of English 
the standard language of the U.S.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will note instances in which English is
favored as a standard language.  Examples are the positive 
results achieved by immigrants in the areas of acceptance,
greater economic opportunity, and increased academic
achievement.  Reports are also desired which describe some
of the language difficulties encountered by other nations
and groups of nations, e.g., Canada, Belgium, European
Community, when they have opted for the use of two or more
languages as their official means of communication.  Not 
relevant are reports which promote bilingualism or 
multilingualism.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  178 


<title> Topic: Dog Maulings 

<desc> Description:

Document will report on attacks by dogs on humans in the U.S.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will note an attack that resulted in death
or injury on any human, regardless of age, anywhere in the 
United States.  It should identify actual cases and include
the location of the attack, the individuals being attacked,
the breed and number of dog(s) if known, and the resultant
injuries or death.  Reports only of numbers of injuries or
deaths attributable to dogs are not relevant unless specifics
are included.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  179 


<title> Topic: U. S. Restaurants in Foreign Lands 

<desc> Description:

Document will identify those countries where U.S. fast food 
restaurant chains are now or will be located.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will identify the restaurant chain and
the specific country where the restaurant is now or will be
located.  Town locations are of interest but are not required
for relevancy.  Planned expansions are relative providing
specific negotiations with the country of interest are now
or have already taken place.  Relevancy requires the name of
a food associated restaurant chain, not just sales and
distribution of 'soft drinks' and 'snacks'.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  180 


<title> Topic: Ineffectiveness of U.S. Embargoes/Sanctions 

<desc> Description:

Document will report ineffective results of embargo/sanction
activities against a foreign nation by the U.S.  Embargo may
be established in conjunction with friendly nation(s) after
notification to the U.N.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will provide statement or implication on
the ineffectiveness of an embargo or sanction taken against a
foreign nation by the U.S.  Document must also contain the 
type and reason for the embargo or sanction, name of foreign
nation, and, where noted, information regarding the method(s)
employed by that foreign nation to circumvent the embargo or
sanction.

</top>
 
<top> 

<num> Number:  181


<title> Topic: Abuse of the Elderly by Family Members, and Medical and
Nonmedical Personnel, and Initiatives Being Taken to Minimize This 
Mistreatment 

<desc> Description:

Document will identify reports of elderly patients being abused in 
nursing homes and other facilities by skilled medical and nonmedical
personnel and family members.

<narr>  Narrative:

To be relevant a document must provide pertinent data on abuse of
the elderly in nursing homes or related facilities by health care 
professionals, nonmedical personnel and family members involved in
patient care.  The document must cite the type of abuse inflicted and
the category of personnel involved in the abuse.  Laws and 
regulations affecting patient care are relevant when specific 
changes in policy or procedures to reduce abuse are indicated.
Generalized statements on the environmental conditions prevalent in
the facilities are not relevant unless specific data is presented
to indicate positive action is being taken to alleviate
the conditions.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  182 


<title> Topic:  Commercial Overfishing Creates Food Fish Deficit  

<desc> Description:

Document will provide information that the world's food fish 
population is decreasing due to commercial overfishing, and 
should present information for the need for counteractive
measures.

<narr>  Narrative:

Relevant document will present data that reflects that 
commercial overfishing has created a shortage in the world
food fish population.  Document will identify any law or 
regulation or area restrictions and limits resulting from
the shortage, and alternate actions being taken to supplement
the current demand for food fish; e.g., aquaculture, different
fishing areas, alternative species of fish.
 
</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  183 


<title> Topic:  Asbestos Related Lawsuits 

<desc> Description:

Document will report on asbestos related lawsuits concerning
asbestosis, a chronic disease of the lungs or mesothelioma,
an incurable cancer of the chest and abdominal membranes.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will report on lawsuits stemming from
diseases attributed to asbestos use in buildings, 
manufacturing plants or shipyards.  Although they may be
scientifically pertinent, reports on cancers/diseases
caused by asbestos use are not relevant to this topic
unless they are explicitly linked to a lawsuit.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  184 


<title> Topic:  Corporate Pension Plans/Funds 

<desc> Description:

Document will report on problems associated with pension
plans/funds such as fraud, skimming, tapping or raiding.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will report on problems associated 
with pension plans/funds and also U.S. Government 
regulatory controls on pension plans.  Examples of 
problems that are considered relevant are fraud, skimming,
tapping or raiding.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  185 


<title> Topic:   Reform of the U.S. Welfare System 

<desc> Description:

Document will report on reform of welfare system in the
U.S. at the federal, state or local levels of government.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will report on the actual or proposed
overhaul of the welfare system at all levels of government.
Some examples of reforms to the welfare system are work,
education and training programs aimed primarily at
welfare recipients.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  186 


<title> Topic:  Difference of Learning Levels Among Inner
City and More Suburban School Students 

<desc> Description:

Document should report the actual or alleged difference in
educational learning levels among inner city and other public
school students.

<narr>  Narrative:

Relevant document must indicate that a different level of    
educational skills does exist between inner city school
students and other school's students citing measures such as
grade point averages.  A relevant document should point to
at least one causative.  Such factors might be:  better
qualified teachers and administrators, more financial 
assistance to other schools, more parent interest or 
involvement, student motivation, peer pressure, and economic
or environment backgrounds.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  187 


<title> Topic:  Signs of the Demise of Independent Publishing 

<desc> Description:

Document must identify instances of the loss of independence   
by publishers, from the sale or merger of their business or 
publication, or the sale of a significant interest in it to
another person or company.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document might describe the purchase of a publishing
house by a more diversified industry, the takeover of a small
publisher by a larger one, or the merger of two or more publishers
or publications.  The closing of a publishing house, subsidiary,
imprint, magazine, or newspaper would also be relevant.  In   
general, a relevant document will indicate the narrowing of the
publishing industry.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  188 


<title> Topic:  Beachfront Erosion 

<desc> Description:

Document will identify instances of beach erosion anywhere in
the U.S. and what, if anything, is being done to prevent its
repetition.

<narr>  Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will identify a specific location
and whether the erosion was natural or storm related.  Procedures
implemented to replenish current beaches and to preclude or
minimize future instances of erosion would also be relevant.
Identification of funds, regardless of source, for use on 
specific beaches or areas would be relevant as well as  
identification of any local, state or federal legislative 
action(s) restricting use of affected areas, erosion of
farmland and along rivers and related stream banks is
not relevant.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number: 189 


<title> Topic: Real Motives for Murder 

<desc> Description: 

Document must identify a murderer's motive for killing a
person or persons in a true case.

<narr>  Narrative:

Most relevant would be a description of an intentional 
murder with a statement of the murderer's motive.  An 
unintentional murder, such as in a charge of second-degree
homicide, would be relevant if a motive is stated for an 
action which clearly led to the victim's death.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  190 


<title> Topic:  Instances of Fraud Involving the Use of a Computer

<desc> Description:

Document will report instances of fraud accomplished anywhere in
the world through the use of an electronic computer.

<narr>  Narrative:

To be relevant, document will describe an example or examples of
the use of an electronic computer to gain an unfair or dishonest
advantage against any entity (government, business, individual)
anywhere in the world.
 
</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  191 


<title> Topic: Efforts to Improve U.S. Schooling 

<desc> Description:

Documents will report an attempt or idea within the U.S. 
to improve student performance at any level (K through
post-graduate) by any means (teacher pay, new equipment,
new methods, new incentives, etc.).

<narr>  Narrative:

To be relevant, document will:

(a) specify the suggestion or course of action being 
undertaken which had as its goal an improvement of
scholastic achievement at any level within the U.S.
educational establishment, and

(b) identify the proponent or proponents of such an
improvement.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  192


<title> Topic: Oil Spill Cleanup 

<desc> Description: Document will identify a method, procedure, or
chemical used in cleaning up oil spills such as the Exxon Valdez.  Only
oil spills on water (ocean, bay, lake, etc.) will be used.


<narr>  Narrative:

To be relevant a document will identify a method, procedure, or
chemical process used in cleaning up the water and beaches after a 
major oil spill, such as the Exxon Valdez incident.  The mere mention
of cleanup efforts without identifying the method or chemical used
is not relevant.  A document that refers to a procedure such as scrubbing,
spraying, etc. is relevant.  References to the cost of cleanup and number
of people and equipment involved without mentioning the method are
not relevant.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  193


<title> Topic: Toys R Dangerous 

<desc> Description:  Document will report the dangers of certain toys 
to children and the activities by consumer safety groups and parents 
against production and retail of these dangerous toys.


<narr>  Narrative:  A relevant document will feature information compiled
by consumer safety groups and concerned parents on manufactured toys they
consider dangerous to the health of children and the harm that toy could
cause a child.  A relevant document may present information on the number
of injuries or deaths caused by dangerous toys, which may cause follow-
on actions by the manufacturer to include recalls or discontinuance of the
production of the toy.  A non-relevant document would contain information
regarding the general production, advertisment and sale of toys.


</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  194 


<title> Topic:  The Amount of Money Earned by Writers 

<desc> Description:  

Document must quote amount of money earned by writers as a
result of their writing efforts.

<narr>  Narrative:

Amount of money quoted may refer to money paid to a writer
for a single item, such as a book advance or a movie deal;
or may be cumulative over a period of time.  It may also
result from ancillary activities such as speaking 
engagements resulting from what they have written.
Writing in any medium is relevant.  A figure may also refer
to a range, such as an industry standard, instead of a 
particular payment.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number: 195


<title> Topic: Stock Market Perturbations Attributable to
Computer Initiated Trading

<desc> Description:  Document will discuss positive or
negative instances of stock market shifts primarily
owing to computer assisted trading initiatives.


<narr>  Narrative:  To be relevant, a document will report
on what stock market analysts or financial reporters
consider reportable upward or downward shifts in
any world-wide market caused at least partially if not
entirely by computer programs which upon recognition of
certain conditions triggered a buy or sell action by
any category of stock market investor (individual,
company, fund, etc).


</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  196


<title> Topic:  School Choice Voucher System and its effects
upon the entire U.S. educational program 

<desc> Description:  Document will discuss the effects,
positive or negative, of a proposed or actual government
financed voucher system for elementary and secondary
students enabling them to attend the school of their
choice.


<narr>  Narrative:  A relevant document will report on
the advantages or disadvantages of a voucher system for
public school students who wish to enroll in a private
school and be subsidized by government funds.  The
document will identify reasons for the voucher choice
and could discuss the possible rise in enrollment of
private and church related schools and the effect the
voucher system could/would have upon the U.S. public
school system.


</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  197


<title> Topic: Reform of the jurisprudence system
to stop juries from granting unreasonable monetary
awards 

<desc> Description: Document will discuss legal tort
reform (a civil wrong for which the injured party
seeks a judgement) with regard to placing limitations
on monetary compensation to plaintiffs.


<narr>  Narrative:  A relevant document will report on
tort reform as it relates to exorbitant financial
remuneration awarded by juries to a plaintiff as a
result of bias, injury, malpractice, or loss of civil
liberties.  It could also discuss what constitutes a
reasonable award or settlement.  Also, a relevant
document could report on or discuss a fee for the 
attorney(s) involved, vice a percentage of the award,
the upper limits of a judgement a jury can award, 
and judges overturning awards.


</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number: 198


<title> Topic: Gene Therapy and Its Benefits to 
Humankind 

<desc> Description: A document will discuss the advances
in medical science which enable researchers to alter
genes thereby effecting a cure or stabilizing a person`s
medical condition or illness.


<narr>  Narrative:  A relevant document will report on 
scientific and medical research currently being undertaken
or planned, to identify those genes which are responsible
for specific illnesses, acquired or hereditary; e.g., cystic
fibrosis, sickle cell anemia, hemophilia, mild retardation,
muscular dystrophy.  Also relevant is any discussion/
reporting on gene splicing and gene implantation techniques
as well as tests for adults which could identify future 
parents whose children will inherit an illness.


</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number: 199


<title> Topic:  Legality of Medically Assisted Suicides 

<desc> Description:  Document will discuss a suicide that
is effected through the assistance of a medically competent
person -- doctor, nurse, medical technician etc.  -- and
the legality of such an assisted action.


<narr>  Narrative:  A relevant document will discuss a
suicide that is effected through the assistance of a medically
competent person and the legal ramifications of such an
assisted action.  It should also include any undue influence,
such as counseling, suggestions, recommendations, and
preparation of medications by the medical person which would
incline the ill person to choose to commit suicide rather
than it being an independent and free personal action.
A suicide committed for health reasons, but as a totally
independent action free from any medical assistance, is not
relevant.


</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  200


<title> Topic: Impact of foreign textile imports on U.S.
textile industry

<desc> Description:  Document must report on how the importation
of foreign textiles or textile products has influenced or 
impacted on the U.S. textile industry.


<narr>  Narrative:  The impact can be positive or negative or
qualitative.  It may include the expansion or shrinkage of 
markets or manufacturing volume or an influence on the methods or
strategies of the U.S. textile industry.  "Textile industry"
includes the production or purchase of raw materials; basic
processing techniques such as dyeing, spinning, knitting,
or weaving; the manufacture and marketing of finished goods;
and also research in the textile field.


</top>
 

<top>

<num> Number:  201 

<desc> Description:   

What procedures should be implemented to insure that
proper care is given to children placed under the
au pairs' responsibility?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  202 

<desc> Description:

Status of nuclear proliferation treaties -- violations and
monitoring.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  203 

<desc> Description:

 What is the economic impact of recycling tires?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  204 

<desc> Description:

Where are the nuclear power plants in the U.S.
and what has been their rate of production?

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  205 

<desc> Description:

What evidence is there of paramilitary activity in the U.S.?

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  206 

<desc> Description:

Prognosis/viability of a political third party in U.S.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  207 

<desc> Description:

What are the prospects of the Quebec separatists
achieving independence from the rest of Canada?

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  208 

<desc> Description:

What are the latest developments in bioconversion --
the conversion of biological waste, garbage, and
plant material into energy, fertilizer, and other
useful products?

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  209 

<desc> Description:

Identify what is being done or what ideas are being proposed
to ensure that Social Security will not go broke?

</top>
 
<top>

<num> Number:  210 

<desc> Description:

How widespread is the illegal disposal of medical waste
in the U.S. and what is being done to combat this
dumping?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  211 

<desc> Description:

How effective are the driving while intoxicated (DWI)
regulations?  Has the number of deaths caused by DWI
been significantly lowered?  Why aren't penalties as
harsh for DWI drivers as for the sober driver.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  212 

<desc> Description:

What countries have been accused of failing to adequately
protect U.S. copyrights, patents and trademarks?  (This
is considered a violation of intellectual property laws)?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  213 

<desc> Description:

As a result of DNA testing, are more defendants being
absolved or convicted of crimes?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  214 

<desc> Description:

What are the different techniques used to create self-
induced hypnosis?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  215 

<desc> Description:

Why is the infant mortality rate in the United States
higher than it is in most other industrialized nations?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  216 

<desc> Description:

What research is ongoing to reduce the effects of
osteoporosis in existing patients as well as prevent
the disease occurring in those unafflicted at this
time?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  217 

<desc> Description:

Reporting on possibility of and search for extra-
terrestrial life/intelligence.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  218 

<desc> Description:

How have mini steel mills changed the steel industry?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  219 

<desc> Description:

How has the volume of U.S. imports of Japanese autos
compared with export of U.S. autos to Canada and
Mexico?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  220 

<desc> Description:

How do crossword puzzle makers go about making their
puzzles?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  221 

<desc> Description:

Steps taken by church, governments, community, civic
organizations to halt carnage among youths engaged
in drug or gang warfare.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  222 

<desc> Description:

Is there data available to suggest that capital 
punishment is a deterrent to crime?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  223 

<desc> Description:

What was responsible for the great emergence of 
"MICROSOFT" in the computer industry?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  224 

<desc> Description:

What can be done to lower blood pressure for people
diagnosed with high blood pressure? Include benefits
and side effects.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  225 

<desc> Description:

What is the main function of the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) and the funding level provided to meet emergencies?  Also, 
what resources are available to FEMA such as people, equipment, 
facilities?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  226 

<desc> Description:

Have large scale state allowed lotteries/gambling improved
the state's financial conditions?  Any reduction noted in
property tax, state income tax, roads?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  227 

<desc> Description:

Identify instances and reasons of deaths in the U.S.
military caused by other than enemy (e.g., friendly fire,
training accidents).

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  228 

<desc> Description:

What are some of the biggest success stories in recent
years concerning environmental recovery from pollution?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  229 

<desc> Description:

What is being done to help people suffering from 
schizophrenia?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  230 

<desc> Description:

Is the automobile industry making an honest effort to  
develop and produce an electric-powered automobile?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  231 

<desc> Description:

Should the U.S. Government provide increased support 
to the National Endowment for the Arts?  

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  232 

<desc> Description:

Reports of and evaluation on the near-death experience.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  233 

<desc> Description:

What are the latest developments of co generation for
electrical power? 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  234 

<desc> Description:

What progress has been made in fuel cell technology? 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  235 

<desc> Description:

What support is there in the U.S. for legalizing
drugs?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  236 

<desc> Description:

Are current laws of the sea uniform?  If not, what
are some of the areas of disagreement?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  237 

<desc> Description:

Identify alternative sources of energy for automobiles.
Include additives to gasoline that either decrease
pollution or reduce oil consumption.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  238 

<desc> Description:

What is the function, annual budget, and/or cost involved 
with the management and upkeep of the U.S. National Parks?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  239 

<desc> Description:

Are there certain regions in the United States where
specific cancers seem to be concentrated?  What conditions
exist that might cause this problem? 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  240 

<desc> Description:

What controls, agreements, technological advances or
equipment are now in use or planned to assist in
combating terrorism?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  241 

<desc> Description:

Find examples of doctor and lawyer groups considering
penalties against members of their professions for
malfeasance and show the results of such investigations.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  242 

<desc> Description:

How has affirmative action affected the construction
industry? 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  243 

<desc> Description:

Should the government restrict the use of fossil fuels
as energy resources by private corporations and public
utilities?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  244 

<desc> Description:

Status of trade balance with Japan - deficit problem.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  245 

<desc> Description:

What are the trends and developments in retirement
communities?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  246 

<desc> Description:

What is the extent of U.S. arms exports? 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  247 

<desc> Description:

What are the predictions concerning the economic effects
of the U.K.-Continent underwater tunnel (Chunnel)?  Will
it present more problems than advantages for the British 
who want to maintain their identity?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  248 

<desc> Description:

What are some developments in electronic technology being
applied to and resulting in advances for the blind?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  249 

<desc> Description:

How has the depletion or destruction of the rain
forest effected the worlds weather? 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number:  250 

<desc> Description:

Does available data show a positive correlation
between the sales of firearms and ammunition in
the U.S. and the commission of crimes involving
firearms?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 251 
<title> Exportation of Industry

<desc> Description: 
Documents will report the exportation of some part 
of U.S. Industry to another country.

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents will identify the type of industry
being exported, the country to which it is exported; and as well
will reveal the number of jobs lost as a result of that exportation.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 252 
<title> Topic: Combating Alien Smuggling 

<desc> Description: 
What steps are being taken by governmental or
even private entities world-wide to stop the 
smuggling of aliens.

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a document must describe an effort 
being made (other than routine border patrols) in any 
country of the world to prevent the illegal penetration 
of aliens across borders. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 253 
<title> Topic: Cryonic suspension services

<desc> Description: 
Status report of the cryonic suspension industry-background 
and future prospects.

<narr> Narrative: 
Cryonics suspension is the practice of quick-freezing a human body 
immediately upon death and its preservation in a nitrogen 
environment for possible resuscitation in the event that a 
cure is found for the cause of death.  There was a rush by 
some to have this done when it first became feasible, but only 
by those wealthy enough to afford the freezing and long-term 
storage fees.  This search seeks to determine where the 
industry is today; is it viable?

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 254 
<title> Topic: Non-invasive procedures for persons with heart ailments

<desc> Description: 
The document will discuss all those cases in which medications and 
procedures were used instead of or prior to heart surgery.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will report/discuss those cases in which 
persons diagnosed with heart ailments were treated with 
medications and/or techniques such as angioplasty, stents, lasers,
arthrectomy (roto router) etc., in place of surgery.  Also advantages
of non-invasive procedures over surgery and comparative studies
which show any disparity in longevity when either procedure is used.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 255 
<title> Topic: Environmental Protection

<desc> Description: 
Name countries that do not practice or ignore 
environmental protective measures.

<narr> Narrative:  
Nations that do not practice or ignore environmental 
protective controls degrade the progress other nations 
have made in this vital area.  There are international 
efforts to protect the environment.  The actions of some 
countries are of some concern, however, because they 
may be ignoring efforts to conserve and protect 
the world's resources.  The objective of this topic is to 
identify countries that do not have environmental controls.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 256 
<title> Topic: Negative Reactions to Reduced Requirements 
for College Undergraduate Core Studies 

<desc> Description: 
Colleges for a long time have been reducing their requirements 
in such core subjects as history, literature, philosophy, and 
science.  Criticism of this trend has occurred.  What are 
those criticisms. 

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a document will provide negative 
opinions/facts concerning the fact that colleges
have reduced their basic requirements for the granting
of degrees to undergraduates. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 257  
<title> Topic: Cigarette Consumption

<desc> Description: 
What data is available on cigarette consumption by country? 

<narr> Narrative: 
If cigarette smoking is a causative factor in 
lung cancer, then countries with higher cigarette 
consumption per capita might experience a higher incidence
of lung cancer.  This topic would provide basic data for
such a comparison. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 258 
<title> Topic: Computer Security

<desc> Description: 
Identify instances of illegal entry into sensitive computer 
networks by non-authorized personnel. 

<narr> Narrative:  
Illegal entry into sensitive computer networks is a 
serious and potentially menacing problem.  Both 'hackers' 
and foreign agents have been known to acquire unauthorized 
entry into various networks. Items relative this 
subject would include but not be limited to instances of 
illegally entering networks containing information of 
a sensitive nature to specific countries, such as defense or 
technology information, international banking, etc.

Items of a personal nature (e.g. credit card fraud, changing of 
college test scores) should not be considered relevant. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 259 
<title> Topic: New Kennedy Assassination Theories

<desc> Description: 
A relevant document will provide new theories about 
the 1960's assassination of President Kennedy.

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents must provide new theories about the assassination 
of President Kennedy that are contrary to the findings of 
the Warren Commission.  This does not mean the new theory 
must indicate more than one assassin but merely dispute 
any part of the Warren commission findings.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 260 
<title> Topic: Evidence of human life 

<desc> Description: 
Evidence of the existence of human life 10,000 years ago. 

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant a document would show evidence that humans 
existed in the New World 10,000 and more years ago.  
The evidence could range from human hairs, tools, fossils, 
etc. to bones of animals indicating human presence.  
Relevant documents would have to specify the 
evidence and the age suspected, as well as the basis for 
any theory presented.  Information on the Clovis Culture 
would be relevant.  Archaeology digs would probably be 
related in some way to each relevant document.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 261 
<title> Topic: Threat posed by Fissionable Material

<desc> Description: 
Does the availability of fissionable material in the 
former states of the Soviet Union and its susceptibility 
to theft, pose a real and growing threat that terrorist 
groups/terrorist states will acquire such 
material and be able to construct nuclear weapons?

<narr> Narrative: 
Under the terms of the strategic disarmament treaty with 
the U.S., the states of the former Soviet Union have been 
dismantling 2000 warheads each year.  From each warhead a 
shiny sphere of plutonium is extracted.  These spheres, 
called "pits", are the elemental cores of a bomb.  In addition, 
other forms of plutonium are scattered over the former Soviet 
Union in institutes, laboratories, plants, shipyards and 
power stations.  Disgruntled employees, who are often underpaid 
or paid irregularly have access to the plutonium.  This worries 
leaders in other countries.  Enriched uranium, an alternate fuel, 
is harder to come by because it is stored in well-guarded military 
facilities, but it is easier to turn into a bomb.  The Russians 
have denied that it came through or from their country, but German 
authorities believe that it did.  Any item which speaks to failures 
in the safeguarding of nuclear material or to black-market operations 
in nuclear material, or to efforts of terrorist groups or terrorist 
states to acquire such material would be relevant.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 262 
<title> Topic:  Seasonal affective disorder syndrome (SADS)

<desc> Description: 
Is seasonal affective disorder syndrome (SADS), (also known 
as seasonal absence of daylight syndrome), a worldwide disorder? 

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents would contain any information that is discovered 
on SADS in general.  Of particular interest would be articles 
of information on the person(s), type environment, location, social 
class, etc.  The overall desire is to know if this disorder affects 
more people that live in areas where more dark hours are prevalant 
over light hours or does it apply largely to people who are more used 
to daylight and sunny hours versus dark and dreary hours.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 263 
<title> Topic: Algae as Food Supplement

<desc> Description: 
What is the value of algae as a food supplement?

<narr> Narrative: 
A recent product that has come on the market is 
Blue-Green Algae, grown in Klamath Lake in Oregon by the 
Cell Tech Company. It is being promoted as a powerful food 
supplement with many beneficial effects, and marketed through 
direct sales in a pyramid-style company.  That is, individual 
dealers both sell the product directly to other individuals 
and also recruit their customers to become dealers themselves, 
and receive a commission on all sales made by their recruits, 
and their recruits' recruits, etc.  What is the opinion of 
the scientific and health community about this product's value?  
Is algae used as a food supplement anywhere else in the world?

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 264 
<title> Topic: U.S. Citizens in Foreign Jails 

<desc> Description: 
Identify instances where U.S. citizens have been or 
are being held in foreign jails since the year 1900.  

<narr> Narrative: 
With International travel becoming more commonplace, 
many travelers, whether due to ignorance of the law or 
with criminal intent, are ending up in foreign jails.  
Of interest is the country involved, the reason for the seizure 
and jailing, and the sentence, if convicted.  U.S. intervention, 
if any, would also be of interest. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 265 
<title> Topic: Domestic Violence	

<desc> Description: 
Document will report on domestic violence in the U.S. 

<narr> Narrative: 
A discussion of domestic violence and the amount of 
sanctioned violence in American culture.  Spousal abuse.  Repeat 
offenders.  It has been noted that immigrant women 
are especially vulnerable to domestic violence.  The 
cultures of their home countries often prevent these 
women from seeking help. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 266 
<title> Topic: Professional Scuba Diving

<desc> Description: 
Where and for what purpose is scuba diving done professionally? 

<narr> Narrative: 
What are some jobs that involve scuba (self-contained 
underwater breathing apparatus) diving?  Where do scuba divers 
work frequently?  Who hires scuba divers?

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 267 
<title> Topic: Firefighter Training 

<desc> Description: 
Should U.S. firefighters incorporate training in procedures 
and equipment utilized by foreign firefighters to improve 
capability of coping with ever-changing firefighting 
conditions? 

<narr> Narrative: 
Many firefighting associations have expressed the need for 
U.S. personnel to share their training and technical abilities 
with similar foreign personnel and organizations in order to 
amalgamate foreign skills and experiences into U.S. procedures.  
Is this possible under austere governmental funding where 
substantial money would be required?  This exchange of 
information would significantly benefit U.S. firefighting 
personnel who are under pressure to cope with new and changing 
problems in the urban areas.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 268 
<title> Topic: Cost of national defense 

<desc> Description: 
Compare the amount of money spent by the U.S. for 
national defense with the amount of money spent by
another country. 

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant a document should show cost figures for 
national defense by a country and compare that figure 
with cost figures for the U.S.  It can be the cost for 
the total defense or a cost for a portion of the defense, 
such as the cost for just the ground forces, a fleet of ships, 
intelligence services, etc.  Dollar figures can be rounded off 
such as "four billion" or "4.5 billion".  The cost of one defense 
item would also be relevant, such as a nuclear submarine or an 
antitank weapon. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 269 
<title> Topic: Foreign Trade

<desc> Description: 
Define instances of the use of foreign trade as an instrument 
to achieve national and foreign policy objectives. 

<narr> Narrative:  
Objective is to determine the frequency of the use of 
foreign trade by nations in order to achieve national
or foreign policy objectives.  Such actions run counter to 
the goal of free trade.  Relevancy factors are to identify
any nation which uses trade to achieve a foreign policy 
objective.  

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 270 
<title> Topic: Control of Food Supplements 

<desc> Description: 
Should the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) exercise 
more stringent control over the labelling and sale of 
food supplements.

<narr> Narrative: 
Food supplements include vitamins, herbal preparations, 
minerals and amino acids.  It is estimated that nearly 
half of all Americans take some dietary supplement every day.  
Until recent years there has been little concern that there 
has been no federal rules covering this four billion dollar 
a year industry.  The government has become concerned with the 
purity of the products, and points to deaths and injuries which 
have occurred because of the contamination of certain 
supplements.  The government is also concerned about 
the exaggerated claims made for some products, and the 
lack of warning labels on the products.  Those who take 
the opposite side of the argument say that the FDA wants 
to eventually control supplements as if they were drugs.
Any item which addresses either side of the argument would be
relevant.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 271 
<title> Topic: Solar Power

<desc> Description: 
To what extent is solar power used as an alternative to 
fossil fuels in various countries worldwide? 

<narr> Narrative: 
Although the development of solar power as a major energy 
source has progressed slowly, in some parts of the world 
it is used extensively.  Where and for what purposes? 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 272 
<title> Topic: Outpatient Surgery 

<desc> Description: 
Medically, is outpatient surgery more prevalant now than 
ever before? 

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents would contain information on who employs 
this practice (info can be on a worldwide basis); what does 
it cover; has it been a cost effective measure; is it driven 
by the hospital insurance industry; and also of interest 
would be any legal actions that may have arisen from this practice.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 273 
<title> Topic: Volcanic and Seismic activity levels 

<desc> Description: 
This topic seeks to determine if there has been a 
significant, noticeable increase in volcanic and 
seismic (earthquake) activity. 

<narr> Narrative:  
The scientific community and the new age writers 
are converging on the phenomena of increased levels 
of volcanic eruption (and of greater magnitude) and 
higher levels of seismic (earthquake) activity.  
The study will examine reporting to seek to determine if these 
perceptions are valid.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 274 
<title> Topic: Electric Automobiles 

<desc> Description:  
What are the latest developments in production of electric
automobiles. 

<narr> Narrative: 
The economic feasibility of electric automobiles 
appears to be limited by the limited range of operation between 
recharges of batteries.  What progress has been made? 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 275 
<title> Topic: Herbal Food Supplements/Natural Health 
Care Products

<desc> Description: 
Evidence indicating that herbal food supplements or 
nature products has caused harm to humans.

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant the product must be identified as to 
the type of herb, natural product, or commercial name.  
The document should show some evidence of the harm 
suffered by an individual who consumed the product.  
Products are usually sold by "nature" stores and used 
as dietary supplements or medicines and are not regulated.  
These products are sometimes labeled as "health care products".  
They are used worldwide and sometimes prescribed by doctors 
and people associated with alternative medicine research.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 276 
<title> Topic: Imposition of a school uniform or dress code

<desc> Description: 
The document will discuss the pros and cons of students 
wearing a school uniform or adhering to a dress code.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will report on the value or positive gains 
in schools which have a school uniform or dress code in terms 
of department and educational gains, positive gains, i.e., 
less crime and better scholastic achievement in schools which have
recently adopted a uniform/dress code.  Alternatively the article
could discuss the negative effects of school uniforms or dress codes.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 277 
<title> Topic: Civilian Deaths from Land Mines

<desc> Description:  
How many civilian deaths have been caused 
by land mines (by country and year). 

<narr> Narrative: 
Sentiment has been growing for an international 
prohibition of land mines because of the difficulty of 
removing these weapons after cessation of hostilities.  
How serious is this problem? 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 278 
<title> Topic: DNA Information about Human Ancestry

<desc> Description: 
A relevant document will discuss geneticists findings 
concerning the ancestry of the world's peoples.

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a chosen item will discuss the genetic 
code research currently being done to determine the 
mysteries of mankind's origins and migrations.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 279 
<title> Topic: Earth magnetic pole shifting 

<desc> Description: 
This topic will explore reporting on the
possible shifting of the earth's magnetic poles.

<narr> Narrative: 
Some current literature, scientific and popular, is 
reporting evidence of the shifting of the earth's 
magnetic poles.  The degree of shifting is in dispute 
as well as whether this shifting will continue and 
the possible consequences of such shifting.  Besides
the obvious effect on navigational aids, a major shift
could bring about a realignment of earth's axis and a
rotation of the earth on its axis with dire consequences. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 280 
<title> Topic:  Ban on Ivory Trade

<desc> Description:  
How effective has the ban on ivory trade been in 
protecting the elephant from extinction? 

<narr> Narrative: 
An international agreement banning trade in ivory was 
reached in 1990.  What effect has this had on the elephant 
population, if any?  Have other steps been taken? 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 281 
<title> Topic:  Genetic code of yeast

<desc> Description: 
To be relevant a document must identify some benefit that 
scientists hope to gain from deciphering the genetic code 
of yeast.

<narr> Narrative: 
This benefit should relate to human cells since yeast cells 
are so closely related to human cells.  Researchers have 
been using yeast to study the fundamentals of genetics and 
scientists have long recognized that yeast provided insights 
into ways human cells work.  Relevant documents should answer 
questions such as:  What genes found in yeast have the same 
relative functions as genes found in humans?  Identify the 
full genetic sequence or pattern of yeast.  Identify a gene 
that reacts the same way on a yeast cell and a human cell.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 282 
<title> Topic:  Violent Juvenile Crime

<desc> Description: 
Is violent juvenile crime a global issue?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document would contain information on violent 
juvenile crime (murder, rape, armed robbery etc.) occurring 
throughout the world.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 283 
<title> Topic: China Trade

<desc> Description: 
Has the China trade policy had a positive effect on
U.S. consumers? 

<narr> Narrative: 
Chinese manufacturers' exploitation of the labor force 
and poor working conditions have brought criticism from 
the U.S. and some European organizations, particularly 
organized labor unions.  They contend that U.S. consumers 
are being offered products inferior in both quality of 
material and workmanship.  U.S. companies allege that, 
with using foreign manufacturers, consumer costs remain 
relatively stable with minimal degradation in quality and 
workmanship of the product involved.  
 
</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 284 
<title> Topic: International Drug Enforcement Cooperation 

<desc> Description: 
Identify instances where it is shown that international cooperation 
is taking place in an effort to combat the worldwide drug problem.  

<narr> Narrative: 
Drugs are a critical problem being experienced throughout 
the world.  International Cooperation will be required if this 
problem is to be alleviated. Examples of relative documents would 
be those related to shared information regarding shipments 
across international borders as well as sharing of information with 
various prosecutors and other law enforcement personnel. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 285 
<title> Topic: World submarine forces 

<desc> Description: 
Determine the number of submarines, both nuclear-
powered and conventional, presently in the inventories 
of all the countries in the world. 

<narr> Narrative: 
We are looking for a count of operable submarines in 
any country that currently has a navy with submarines.  
To be relevant a document should give a specific number 
of submarines, but not necessarily its entire fleet of 
submarines (although, that is our ultimate goal).  
A report of a French submarine suffering a mishap 
in the North sea would not be relevant.  However, a report 
of a new submarine being built in Shanghai that contains 
other valuable information, such as "this is the third 
reported unit constructed at this base" would be relevant.  
Any information that would be considered useful as an 
intelligence tool in determining a country's submarine 
order of battle would be relevant. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 286 
<title> Topic: Paper Cost

<desc> Description: 
Why is the cost of paper rising?

<narr> Narrative: 
In the last year or so the publishing industry is said 
to have faced a 40% increase in the cost of paper.  What 
factors have led to this price rise?  Is there a shortage of 
materials?  Has the cost of processing risen?  Have higher
taxes been imposed? 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 287 
<title> Topic: Electronic Surveillance

<desc> Description: 
Individual privacy rights vs electronic surveillance

<narr> Narrative: 
Does electronic surveillance by an organization of 
its employees violate that individual's privacy rights.  
Need information where electronic surveillance is being 
used and to what degree by an organization.  Also require 
documents which reveal laws and regulation governing the 
rights of an organization to electronically survey its 
employees.  Reports which indicate the circumstances which 
caused the organization to start electronic surveillance 
are relevant.  Other relevant documents may reflect 
information on an employee suing over his right to privacy 
and the circumstances of the event.  Look for what are 
most of the verdicts in these cases.  Also a relevant 
report would be one where other approaches are being 
considered to offset this growing problem between an 
individual's right to privacy and the security of an organization. 
</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 288 
<title> Topic: Weight Control/Diets 

<desc> Description: 
Document will report on weight control and diets in
the U.S. 

<narr> Narrative: 
Sports nutrition leaders say the key to controlling weight, 
while fueling yourself properly for activity, is to eat the 
right kind of foods at the optimum time.  More than a third 
of U.S. women and nearly a quarter of U.S. men are trying to 
lose weight at any one time, according to a report by the NIH.  
Evidence presented at an NIH Conference showed that diets 
fail the majority of time.  Some therapists believe that 
overweight people need to learn to accept themselves, forget 
their obsession of losing weight and get on with their lives. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 289 
<title> Topic: For-profit hospitals

<desc> Description: 
How will the emergence of chains of for-profit hospitals 
affect the hospital industry and the provision of health 
care?

<narr> Narrative: 
Over the past several years some community hospitals have 
been forced to close, and others have seen their bed 
occupancy rate drop to low levels.  Entrepreneurs have 
bought up inefficiently operated hospitals, and have 
formed them into large chains.  The Columbia Healthcare 
Corporation has been very active in this area, and by 
October 1993 it had created a chain of 190 hospitals.  Critics
of these chains argue that they could limit consumer choice and 
eventually raise costs as the chains became more powerful.  They also
say that the concentration on the bottom line could have an adverse 
effect on health care, particularly if doctors are offered an equity
stake in the operations.  Any item which discusses the formation and
management of hospital chains, or which discusses how the chains 
affect other hospitals or the provision of health care would be 
relevant.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 290 
<title> Topic: Foreign automobile manufacturers in U.S.

<desc> Description: 
What is the impact of foreign automobile manufacturers 
locating their plants in the United States?

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents would contain information on the impact 
on the economies within the U.S. locations; impact on foreign 
locations such as the increase/loss of revenue and/or employment; 
and/or increase or decrease in the cost of the vehicles.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 291 
<title> Topic: Source of taxes

<desc> Description: 
Source of taxes for major countries of the world excluding 
the U.S.

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant a document would examine, explain or otherwise 
identify taxes paid by citizens of a major country other than 
the United States.  The revenue gained from the taxes would 
be intended for the government to be used for the benefit 
of all citizens.  They would include but not be limited to 
such taxes as income tax, sales tax, property tax, etc.  
A relevant document should include some evidence of a 
percentage rate, amount, or other measure indicating how 
much revenue is involved.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 292 
<title> Topic: Worldwide Welfare

<desc> Description: 
Identify social programs for poor people in
countries other than the U.S.

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant a document would identify a welfare 
program in a foreign country and explain how it works 
to aid citizens who have little or no income.  It would 
include those who can't work because of a disability and 
people who have the extra burden of small children.  
The document should indicate how these people are 
supported or not supported.  A relevant document 
should identify the source of the monies used to 
support such welfare programs. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 293 
<title> Topic: Evacuation of U.S. Citizens by U.S. Military 

<desc> Description: 
Evacuation of U.S. Citizens by U.S. Military since the 
year 1900 

<narr> Narrative: 
The U.S. Military has many times been called upon to evacuate 
non-combatant U.S. personnel from Foreign Countries.  Identify 
instances where U.S. military personnel have been called on 
to evacuate non-military U.S. citizens from possible chaotic 
and dangerous situations around the world.  

Evacuation of military personnel should not be considered
relevant unless accomplished in concert with the evacuation
of civilians. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 294 
<title> Topic: Animal husbandry for exotic animals 

<desc> Description: 
This topic will seek out reporting on the commercial 
growth of animal husbandry relating to "different" 
or "exotic" animals as opposed to the usual poultry, 
cattle, pigs, sheep, etc.

<narr> Narrative: 
This study will attempt to discover the viability and 
economic prospects of commercial attempts to raise "exotic" 
animals.  Some of the animals currently being raised are:  
llamas, emus, ostriches, mohair goats, alpacas, buffalo, 
catfish, crawfish, reindeer, rhea, trout, salmon, oyster, 
and shrimp. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 295 
<title> Topic: Deaths from Scuba Diving

<desc> Description: 
What deaths have resulted from scuba diving? 

<narr> Narrative: 
I am looking for actual examples of people who have 
died while they were scuba diving, or of deaths that 
have occurred later but were the result of scuba diving.  
Quantitative reports of the number of deaths are relevant.  
Deaths from natural causes such as heart or asthma attacks 
are relevant if the attack occurred while the person was 
scuba diving.  

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 296 
<title> Topic: Trash TV

<desc> Description: 
Has the popularity of trash TV in the USA led to the 
spread of such "entertainment" in other countries?

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a document will discuss foreign (to the U.S.) 
TV programming that is similar to the daytime, sensational 
and weird type of TV programming now popular in the U.S.?

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 297 
<title> Topic: Right To Die - Pros and Cons 

<desc> Description: 
Right To Die - Pros and Cons 

<narr> Narrative: 
Circumstances surrounding death have changed in the 
last 30 years.  Even dying has become an ordeal, especially 
for patients and families who are not well informed about 
their choices.  Look for relevant documents which reflect 
legal and ethical issues and current thinking about death.  
Documents which reveal how nursing homes are prolonging 
life through artificial means because of possible legal 
problems are relevant.  Documents on euthanasia are relevant.  
Reports which reflect types and definition of euthanasia are 
also relevant.  Look for articles which report on the laws 
and regulation governing when medical treatments may be 
discontinued thereby causing death and laws which grant 
patients the right to refuse medical treatment.  Some form of 
euthanasia is currently acceptable in some countries throughout the
world, these are all relevant.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 298 
<title> Topic:  Gun Control

<desc> Description:  
What countries have enforced strict gun control 
measures since 1950? 

<narr> Narrative: 
There is much controversy over whether "gun control" 
is effective in reducing violent crimes.  Inspecting 
the experience of countries that have enforced such 
restrictions over a period of years should help answer 
the question.

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 299 
<title> Topic: Impact on local economies of military downsizing 

<desc> Description: 
What has been the impact on local economies caused by U.S. 
Military downsizing and base closure at U.S. and Foreign
soil locations?

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents would contain information on the financial 
impact (revenue lost); employment impact (jobs lost); real 
estate impact (use of facilities); as well as any gains derived 
through continued use of the facilities for other purposes. 

</top>
<top>

<num> Number: 300 
<title> Topic: Air Traffic Control Systems 

<desc> Description: 
To be relevant, an item will concern a commercial airline 
accident anywhere in the world and consider, if not outright 
attribute, the casualty to a difficulty (either mechanical 
or human) with an air traffic control system. 

<narr> Narrative: 
The U.S. National Air Traffic Controllers Association 
frequently warns that air traffic control systems around 
the world are inadequate and that personnel are frequently 
overworked.  Is there evidence in investigation data that 
the mechanical and human systems worldwide frequently 
contribute to airliner casualties?

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 301 
<title> International Organized Crime 

<desc> Description: 
Identify organizations that participate in international criminal
activity, the activity, and, if possible, collaborating organizations
and the countries involved.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document must as a minimum identify the organization and the
type of illegal activity (e.g., Columbian cartel exporting cocaine).
Vague references to international drug trade without identification of
the organization(s) involved would not be relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 302
<title> Poliomyelitis and Post-Polio 

<desc> Description: 
Is the disease of Poliomyelitis (polio) under control in the
world?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents should contain data or outbreaks of the 
polio disease (large or small scale), medical protection 
against the disease, reports on what has been labeled as 
"post-polio" problems.  Of interest would be location of 
the cases, how severe, as well as what is being done in 
the "post-polio" area.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 303 
<title> Hubble Telescope Achievements 

<desc> Description: 
Identify positive accomplishments of the Hubble telescope since it
was launched in 1991.

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents are relevant that show the Hubble telescope has produced 
new data, better quality data than previously available, data that 
has increased human knowledge of the universe, or data that has led
to disproving previously existing theories or hypotheses.  Documents
limited to the shortcomings of the telescope would be irrelevant.  
Details of repairs or modifications to the telescope without 
reference to positive achievements would not be relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 304 
<title> Endangered Species (Mammals) 

<desc> Description: 
Compile a list of mammals that are considered to be endangered,
identify their habitat and, if possible, specify what threatens them.

<narr> Narrative: 
Any document identifying a mammal as endangered is relevant.  
Statements of authorities disputing the endangered status would also
be relevant.  A document containing information on habitat and
populations of a mammal identified elsewhere as endangered would also
be relevant even if the document at hand did not identify the species
as endangered.  Generalized statements about endangered species 
without reference to specific mammals would not be relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 305
<title> Most Dangerous Vehicles 

<desc> Description: 
Which are the most crashworthy, and least crashworthy, 
passenger vehicles?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will contain information on the 
crashworthiness of a given vehicle or vehicles that 
can be used to draw a comparison with other vehicles.  
The document will have to describe/compare vehicles, 
not drivers.  For instance, it should be expected 
that vehicles preferred by 16-25 year-olds would be 
involved in more crashes, because that age group is
involved in more crashes.  I would view number of 
fatalities per 100 crashes to be more revealing of 
a vehicle's crashworthiness than the number of
crashes per 100,000 miles, for example.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 306
<title> African Civilian Deaths 

<desc> Description: 
How many civilian non-combatants have been killed in 
the various civil wars in Africa?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will contain specific casualty 
information for a given area, country, or region.  
It will cite numbers of civilian deaths caused 
directly or indirectly by armed conflict.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 307 
<title> New Hydroelectric Projects 

<desc> Description: 
Identify hydroelectric projects proposed or under construction by
country and location.  Detailed description of nature, extent,
purpose, problems, and consequences is desirable.

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents would contain as a minimum a clear statement 
that a hydroelectric project is planned or construction is under 
way and the location of the project.  Renovation of existing
facilities would be judged not relevant unless plans call for a
significant increase in acre-feet or reservoir or a marked change
in the environmental impact of the project.  Arguments for and
against proposed projects are relevant as long as they are supported 
by specifics, including as a minimum the name or location of the
project.  A statement that an individual or organization is for or
against such projects in general would not be relevant.  Proposals
or projects underway to dismantle existing facilities or drain
existing reservoirs are not relevant, nor are articles reporting a
decision to drop a proposed plan.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 308 
<title> Implant Dentistry 

<desc> Description: 
What are the advantages and/or disadvantages of tooth implants?

<narr> Narrative: 
A tooth replacement procedure, begun in the 1960s by Doctor
Branemark, is becoming more widely used today.  It involves 
the replacement of a lost tooth/teeth by an implantation 
process which secures the fabricated tooth to a titanium post
with an adhesive resulting in a stable and sturdy denture 
almost like the original.  A relevant document will include 
any clinical experiment, report, study, paper, or medical 
discussion which describes the advantages or disadvantages of 
tooth implant(s), conditions under which such a procedure is 
favorable, denture comfort and function compared to false teeth, 
bridge, or plate and comparative cost differential.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 309 
<title> Rap and Crime 

<desc> Description: 
Evidence that rap music has a negative effect on young people.

<narr> Narrative: 
The lyrics to Rap music are replete with words which degrade
women, glorify drug abuse, the killing of policemen and even
romanticize suicide.  A crusade was begun a few years ago in
which the music industry was asked "to clean up its act" 
because of the detrimental effect it was having upon teenagers.  
There were some instances in which teenagers, who demonstrated 
no sign of internal strife, committed suicide.  The only clues
to their self-destruction were notes found near the bodies with
lyrics from Rap songs relating to suicide.  A relevant item 
should include any psychological study, evidence, poll, 
documentation, or psychological opinion that Rap music has a 
deleterious effect upon young people and has led to a discernible
change in personality, life style, crime, alteration of personality
or any other negative effect upon the psyche, mores, and culture
of teenagers.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 310
<title> Radio Waves and Brain Cancer 

<desc> Description: 
Evidence that radio waves from radio towers or car phones affect
brain cancer occurrence.

<narr> Narrative: 
Persons living near radio towers and more recently persons using
car phones have been diagnosed with brain cancer.  The argument 
rages regarding the direct association of one with the other.
The incidence of cancer among the groups cited is considered, by
some, to be higher than that found in the normal population.  A 
relevant document includes any experiment with animals, statistical 
study, articles, news items which report on the incidence of brain 
cancer being higher/lower/same as those persons who live near a 
radio tower and those using car phones as compared to those in the 
general population.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 311
<title> Industrial Espionage 

<desc> Description: 
Document will discuss the theft of trade secrets along with 
the sources of information:  trade journals, business meetings,
data from Patent Offices, trade shows, or analysis of a 
competitor's products.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will contain specific information on the
theft of trade secrets on new or existing technology.  Relevant
information includes, but is not limited to, espionage in the
highly competitive fashion industry, toy companies, drug firms,
and computer companies.  An apparently legal way of stealing
company secrets is by using the Freedom of Information Act, 
passed by the U.S. Congress in 1966 to help people and the 
press get information for the public good.  The law has often
been used instead by companies for private gain.  Documents
discussing company counterespionage are also considered to be
relevant. 

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 312
<title> Hydroponics 

<desc> Description: 
Document will discuss the science of growing plants in
water or some substance other than soil.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will contain specific information 
on the necessary nutrients, experiments, types of 
substrates, and/or any other pertinent facts related 
to the science of hydroponics.  Related information 
includes, but is not limited to, the history of
hydroponics, advantages over standard soil agricultural
practices, or the approach of suspending roots in a 
humid enclosure and spraying them periodically with a
nutrient solution to promote plant growth.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 313
<title> Magnetic Levitation-Maglev 

<desc> Description: 
Commercial uses of Magnetic Levitation.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document must contain Magnetic Levitation
or Maglev.  It should be concerned with possible
commercial applications of this phenomenon to 
include primarily mass transit, but also other
commercial applications such as Maglev flywheels 
for cars.  Discussions of superconductivity when
linked to Maglev and government support plans when 
linked to Maglev are also relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 314
<title> Marine Vegetation 

<desc> Description: 
Commercial harvesting of marine vegetation such as 
algae, seaweed and kelp for food and drug purposes.

<narr> Narrative: 
Recent research has shown that marine vegetation 
is a valuable source of both food (human and animal)
and a potentially useful drug.  This search will 
focus primarily on these two uses.  Also to be 
considered relevant would be instances of other
possible commercial uses such as fertilizer, etc.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 315
<title> Unexplained Highway Accidents

<desc> Description: 
How many fatal highway accidents are there each 
year that are not resolved as to cause.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will contain data relating to 
highway accidents where the cause of the accident 
cannot be determined.  Typical of such accidents 
would be those where one vehicle "suddenly swerves 
into oncoming traffic."  

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 316
<title> Polygamy Polyandry Polygyny  

<desc> Description: 
A look at the roots and prevalence of polygamy 
in the world today.

<narr> Narrative: 
Polygamy is a form of marriage which permits a
person to have more than one husband or wife.
Polyandry refers to one woman sharing two or 
more husbands at the same time.  Polygyny refers
to one man sharing two or more wives at the 
same time.  Primary focus of the search will be
the prevalence of these practices in the world
today and societal attitudes towards these
practices.  Also relevant would be discussions
of the roots and practical sources of these
customs.  A modern development in this area is
serial polygamy, a phrase coined to label the
practice of men who take a series of wives in
sequence as a solution to practical welfare,
considerations of child care, housing, etc.
Documents discussing serial polygamy will not
be considered relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 317
<title> Unsolicited Faxes 

<desc> Description: 
Have regulations been passed by the FCC banning
junk facsimile (fax)?  If so, are they effective?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents will provide information on 
the cost of junk fax transmitted to individuals
or businesses.  Documents which contain laws or
regulations passed banning junk fax or articles
indicating the effectiveness or ineffectiveness
of these laws are relevant.  Additionally, any
document showing where unsolicited/junk fax is 
an invasion of privacy is also relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 318
<title> Best Retirement Country 

<desc> Description: 
Aside from the United States, which country offers 
the best living conditions and quality of life for 
a U.S. retiree?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will contain information describing 
the living conditions and/or costs in one or more foreign 
countries.  It will provide information that a potential 
retiree could use in deciding where to establish a 
retirement home.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 319
<title> New Fuel Sources 

<desc> Description: 
What research is ongoing for new fuel sources.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents will contain information on
the actual research being accomplished for new
fuel sources.  Documents may also reveal company
(companies) involved in this research.  Listing(s)
of possible new fuel sources is also of relevance.
Relevant documents can also show how much current
fuel sources are available, however, articles
which simply refer to current sources are not
relevant.  Documents about nuclear power are 
relevant only if they discuss new developments in
the nuclear field, such as the processing of spent
fuel to establish a new nuclear fuel system.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 320
<title> Undersea Fiber Optic Cable 

<desc> Description: 
Fiber optic link around the globe (Flag) will be
the world's longest undersea fiber optic cable.
Who's involved and how extensive is the technology
on this system.  What problems exist?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents will reference companies involved
in building the system or the technology needed for
such an endeavor.  Of relevance also would be information
on the link up points of FLAG or landing sites or 
interconnection with other telecommunication cables.
Relevant documents may reference any regulatory problems
with the system once constructed.  A non-relevant 
document would contain information on other fiber optic
systems currently in place.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 321
<title> Women in Parliaments 

<desc> Description: 
Pertinent documents will reflect the fact that women
continue to be poorly represented in parliaments 
across the world, and the gap in political power
between the sexes is very wide, particularly in the
Third World.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Pertinent documents relating to this issue will 
discuss the lack of representation by women, the
countries that mandate the inclusion of a certain
percentage of women in their legislatures, decreases
if any in female representation in legislatures, and
those countries in which there is no representation
of women.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 322
<title> International Art Crime 

<desc> Description: 
Isolate instances of fraud or embezzlement in the international
art trade.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document is any report that identifies an instance
of fraud or embezzlement in the international buying or selling
of art objects.  Objects include paintings, jewelry, sculptures
and any other valuable works of art.  Specific instances must be
identified for a document to be relevant; generalities are not
relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 323
<title> Literary/Journalistic Plagiarism 

<desc> Description: 
Find instances of plagiarism in the literary and journalistic
worlds.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will report any occasion or suspected instance
of plagiarism in the areas of either literature or journalism.
Relevant documents will also include such areas as doctorate and
master's theses and will encompass writings as well as the ideas
and concepts developed by some authors and taken or borrowed by
others without attribution.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 324
<title> Argentine/British Relations

<desc> Description: 
Define Argentine and British international relations 
 
<narr> Narrative: 
It has been 15 years since the war between Argentina
and the United Kingdom in 1982 over sovereignty in the
Falkland Islands.  A relevant report will describe 
their relations after that period.  Any kind of 
international contact between the two countries is
relevant, to include commercial, economic, cultural,
diplomatic, or military exchanges.  Negative reports
on the absence of such exchanges are also desirable.
Reports containing information on direct exchanges
between Argentina and the Falkland Islands are also
relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 325
<title> Cult Lifestyles 

<desc> Description: 
Describe a cult by name and identify the cult members'
activities in their everyday life.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document would include the name of the cult
and offer information about the members' lifestyles.
It may include how they dress or what they do to attain
the ultimate goal of the organization.  A relevant 
document may tell what they eat or how they contribute
to the cult.  Just the mention of the existence of a 
cult by name with no other clarifying information would
not be relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 326
<title> Ferry Sinkings  

<desc> Description: 
Any report of a ferry sinking where 100 or more people
lost their lives.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a document must identify a ferry that 
has sunk causing the death of 100 or more humans.  It
must identify the ferry by name or place where the 
sinking occurred.  Details of the cause of the sinking
would be helpful but are not necessary to be relevant.
A reference to a ferry sinking without the number of
deaths would not be relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 327
<title> Modern Slavery 

<desc> Description: 
Identify a country or a city where there is evidence
of human slavery being practiced in the eighties or
nineties.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document would present evidence of current
slavery practices being carried out.  It would identify
a specific country or city and give some information on
who the slaves are, or who was buying or selling them,
and for what purposes they were being used.  References
to slavery being carried out several years ago would not
be relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 328
<title> Pope Beatifications

<desc> Description: 
Identify an individual that has been beatified by the Pope.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, the document must include the person's name
as well as the person's deeds or actions that led to the
recognition by the Pope.  It must also include when such
actions or deeds occurred by giving the year or period
of time, i.e., "late 17th century".

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 329
<title> Mexican Air Pollution 

<desc> Description: 
Mexico City has the worst air pollution in the
world.  Pertinent Documents would contain the
specific steps Mexican authorities have taken
to combat this deplorable situation.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents would discuss the steps the
Mexican Government has taken to alleviate the
air pollution in Mexico City.  Steps such as 
reducing the number of automobiles in the city,
encouraging the use of mass public transportation,
and creating new mass transportation systems are 
relevant, among others.  Mention of any new
methods in the design stage would also be 
appropriate.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 330
<title> Iran-Iraq Cooperation 

<desc> Description: 
This query is looking for examples of cooperation or
friendly ties between Iran and Iraq, or ways in which
the two countries could be considered allies.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document would mention such things as mutually
beneficial economic, military, religious, or social 
relations; cooperation on border control or treatment of
minorities; collaboration in getting around trade sanctions
placed upon either country, etc.  (Any mention of the 
possible return of the airplanes Iraq flew to Iran during 
the Gulf War would also be relevant).

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 331
<title> World Bank Criticism 

<desc> Description: 
What criticisms have been made of World Bank policies, 
activities or personnel?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
This query is looking for any instances where the 
World Bank has been accused of things like not being
responsive to the unique problems of individual countries,
of being too strict in its policies, of pursuing agendas
that are biased because of their benefits to western 
countries, of being no longer useful or practical, of
its personnel being difficult to work with, etc.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 332
<title> Income Tax Evasion

<desc> Description: 
This query is looking for investigations that have 
targeted evaders of U.S. income tax.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document would mention investigations 
either in the U.S. or abroad of people suspected of
evading U.S. income tax laws.  Of particular interest
are investigations involving revenue from illegal 
activities, as a strategy to bring known or suspected
criminals to justice.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 333
<title> Antibiotics Bacteria Disease 

<desc> Description: 
Determine the reasons why bacteria seems to be winning
the war against antibiotics and rendering antibiotics
now less effective in treating diseases than they were
in the past.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will address the questions of how 
and why, and to what degree, bacteria are able to fend 
off the curative effects of antibiotics.  Overuse of 
antibiotics, as well as the increasing use of antibiotics
in promoting the growth of crops and animals whose food
products are meant for human consumption have played roles
in creating a situation where every known bacteria-generated
disease now has versions that resist at least one of the 
more than 100 antibiotics now in use.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 334
<title> Export Controls Cryptography 

<desc> Description: 
Determine the usefulness and effectiveness of 
continuing to maintain export controls on 
encryption software.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents will argue for or against
continuing to make encryption software subject to
export controls.  Since 1993 quality encryption 
software to ensure the secrecy of communications
has been available, but the U.S. Government has 
considered such software to be subject to the same
export controls as munitions, and has sought to 
restrict the export of encryption software unless 
it contains a device which could allow the U.S. to
read the underlying messages.  Business interests 
say that this will make it impossible for U.S. producers
to compete in the international market.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 335
<title> Adoptive Biological Parents 

<desc> Description: 
Identify the problems, and solutions to those problems, 
which arise in the relationships among biological
parents, adoptive parents, and the child or children 
involved.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will report on court procedures 
and decisions which affect the rights of biological
parents, adoptive parents, as well as the adopted 
child.  Problems arise when the biological parents 
of a child given up for adoption decide that they 
or he/she would like to reclaim the child against 
the wishes of the adoptive parents.  Problems also 
arise when the adopted child tries to identify and
contact the biological parents, but find the way
blocked by sealed court orders.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 336
<title> Black Bear Attacks 

<desc> Description: 
A relevant document would discuss the frequency
of vicious black bear attacks worldwide and the
possible causes for this savage behavior.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
It has been reported that food or cosmetics 
sometimes attract hungry black bears, causing
them to viciously attack humans.  Relevant 
documents would include the aforementioned 
causes as well as speculation preferably from
the scientific community as to other possible
causes of vicious attacks by black bears.  A
relevant document would also detail steps 
taken or new methods devised by wildlife 
officials to control and/or modify the
savageness of the black bear.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 337
<title> Viral Hepatitis 

<desc> Description: 
What research has been done on viral hepatitis 
and what progress has been made in its treatment?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document might include any of the 
following information: 

-- A medical procedure used in the treatment of
   hepatitis.

-- Ongoing research in vaccines, including the 
   identity of the strain of hepatitis.

-- How hepatitis affects the body's immune system.

-- Third World countries' reports on control of
   the disease.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 338
<title> Risk of Aspirin 

<desc> Description: 
What adverse effects have people experienced while taking 
aspirin repeatedly?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document should identify any adverse effects 
experienced from the repeated use of aspirin. Possible 
effects might include intestinal bleeding, inflammation 
of the stomach, or various forms of ulcers. The purpose 
of the individual's repeated aspirin use should also 
be stated.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 339
<title> Alzheimer's Drug Treatment 

<desc> Description: 
What drugs are being used in the treatment of 
Alzheimer's Disease and how successful are they?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document should name a drug used in 
the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease and also 
its manufacturer, and should give some indication 
of the drug's success or failure.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 340
<title> Land Mine Ban 

<desc> Description: 
Identify any actions being taken to propel the
nations of the world toward a treaty banning
the production, transfer and use of land mines.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Brought about by various conflicts, there are an 
estimated 100 million land mines buried in 60
countries with thousands of acres of land made 
unusable.  It is estimated that every 22 minutes
a man, woman or child is killed or maimed by a
land mine.  Identify any actions being taken to 
propel the nations of the world toward a treaty 
banning the production, transfer and use of land 
mines.  Also, of interest, would be identification 
of actions being undertaken to sanitize the thousands 
of acres now made unusable due to use of these mines.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 341
<title> Airport Security 

<desc> Description: 
A relevant document would discuss how effective
government orders to better scrutinize passengers
and luggage on international flights and to step
up screening of all carry-on baggage has been.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document would contain reports on what
new steps airports worldwide have taken to better 
scrutinize passengers and their luggage on 
international flights and to step up screening of
all carry-on baggage.  With the increase in 
international terrorism and in the wake of the
TWA Flight 800 disaster, articles on airport 
security relating in particular to additional
steps taken by airports to increase flight safety
would be relevant.  The mere mention of enhanced 
security does not constitute relevance.  Additional
steps refer to something beyond just passenger
and carry-on screening using the normal methods.
Examples of new steps would be additional personnel, 
sophisticated monitoring and screening devices, 
and extraordinary measures to check luggage in the 
baggage compartment.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 342
<title> Diplomatic Expulsion 

<desc> Description: 
The end of the Cold War seems to have intensified
economic competition and has started to generate 
serious friction between nations as attempts are 
made by diplomatic personnel to acquire sensitive
trade and technology information or to obtain 
information on highly classified industrial projects.
Identify instances where attempts have been made 
by personnel with diplomatic status to obtain 
information of this nature.

<narr> Narrative: 
Identify instances where attempts have been made 
by personnel with diplomatic status to obtain 
information of this nature.  Of interest would be 
the country(s) involved, the information hopefully 
acquired, or if the exposure resulted in expulsion 
of diplomatic personnel. 

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 343
<title> Police Deaths

<desc> Description: 
Identify instances where a civilian policeman has
been killed either during performance of his duty
or because of other association with this occupation,
e.g., killed for the gun, to keep from testifying, 
etc.

<narr> Narrative: 
Whatever the reason, be it a breakdown in family values
or loss of respect for an authoritative figure, there
seems to have been a substantial increase in the number
of policemen being killed.  Identify instances where a 
civilian policeman has been killed either during 
performance of his duty or because of other association 
with this occupation, e.g., killed for the gun, to keep 
from testifying, etc.  Military police or foreign
military-type personnel considered policemen should not
be considered relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 344
<title> Abuses of E-Mail 

<desc> Description: 
The availability of E-mail to many people through their
job or school affiliation has allowed for many efficiencies
in communications but also has provided the opportunity for
abuses.  What steps have been taken world-wide by those 
bearing the cost of E-mail to prevent excesses?

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a document will concern dissatisfaction by 
an entity paying for the cost of electronic mail.  Particularly
sought are items which relate to system users (such as employees)
who abuse the system by engaging in communications of the type
not related to the payer's desired use of the system.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 345
<title> Overseas Tobacco Sales 

<desc> Description: 
Health studies primarily in the U.S. have caused reductions
in tobacco sales here, but the economic impact has caused
U.S. tobacco companies to look overseas for customers.
What impact have the health and economic factors had overseas?

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, an item will discuss either an increase or 
decrease in the sales of U.S. tobacco products overseas, and
attribute this to health findings or more aggressive marketing
by U.S. companies or the foreign companies they own or cooperate
with.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 346
<title> Educational Standards 

<desc> Description: 
There has long been a call for standards in U.S. education,
these calls frequently citing the superiority of foreign 
school systems.  Are there many countries outside the U.S.
which have standards for pre-teen students?  If so, which
are those countries and what standards have been set?

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, an item will specify the foreign country 
which has adopted standards for children up to the age of 
12 and more specifically give some detail of what the 
standards are (e.g., computer training, 2 years of foreign
language).
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 347
<title> Wildlife Extinction 

<desc> Description: 
The spotted owl episode in America highlighted U.S. efforts
to prevent the extinction of wildlife species.  What is not
well known is the effort of other countries to prevent the
demise of species native to their countries.  What other 
countries have begun efforts to prevent such declines?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant item will specify the country, the involved 
species, and steps taken to save the species.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 348
<title> Agoraphobia 

<desc> Description: 
Is the fear of open or public places (Agoraphobia) a
widespread disorder or relatively unknown?

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents contain data on this physical/mental
disorder, including information on the person affected,
profession of the individual, impact on the life work of
the individual, as well as any data on how these 
individuals cope with this disorder.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 349
<title> Metabolism 

<desc> Description: 
Document will discuss the chemical reactions 
necessary to keep living cells healthy and/or
producing energy.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will contain specific information
on the catabolic and anabolic reactions of the metabolic
process.  Relevant information includes, but is not 
limited to, the reactions occurring in metabolism, 
biochemical processes (Glycolysis or Krebs cycle for
production of energy), and disorders associated with 
the metabolic rate.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 350
<title> Health and Computer Terminals 

<desc> Description: 
Is it hazardous to the health of individuals to	work
with computer terminals on a daily basis?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents would contain any information that 
expands on any physical disorder/problems that may be
associated with the daily working with computer terminals.
Such things as carpel tunnel, cataracts, and fatigue have 
been said to be associated, but how widespread are these or
other problems and what is being done to alleviate any
health problems.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 351 
<title> Falkland petroleum exploration 

<desc> Description: 
What information is available on petroleum exploration in 
the South Atlantic near the Falkland Islands?

<narr> Narrative: 
Any document discussing petroleum exploration in the
South Atlantic near the Falkland Islands is considered
relevant.  Documents discussing petroleum exploration in 
continental South America are not relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 352 
<title> British Chunnel impact  

<desc> Description: 
What impact has the Chunnel had on the British economy and/or 
the life style of the British?

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents discussing the following issues are relevant:

 - projected and actual impact on the life styles of the British 
 - Long term changes to economic policy and relations
 - major changes to other transportation systems linked with 
   the Continent

Documents discussing the following issues are not relevant:

 - expense and construction schedule 
 - routine marketing ploys by other channel crossers (i.e.,
   schedule changes, price drops, etc.) 
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 353 
<title> Antarctica exploration

<desc> Description: 
Identify systematic explorations and scientific investigations
of Antarctica, current or planned.

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents discussing the following issues are relevant:

 - systematic explorations and scientific investigations of Antarctica
   (e.g., seismology, ionospheric physics, possible economic development)
 - other research currently conducted or planned for the future
 - banning of mineral mining 

Documents discussing tourism are non-relevant.  Documents discussing 
"disrupting scientific experiments" are non-relevant unless a specific
experiment is identified.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 354 
<title> journalist risks 

<desc> Description: 
Identify instances where a journalist has been put at risk (e.g.,
killed, arrested or taken hostage) in the performance of his work.

<narr> Narrative: 
Any document identifying an instance where a journalist or 
correspondent has been killed, arrested or taken hostage in the 
performance of his work is relevant.  

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 355
<title> ocean remote sensing 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents discussing the development and application of
spaceborne ocean remote sensing.

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents discussing the development and application of spaceborne 
ocean remote sensing in oceanography, seabed prospecting and 
mining, or any marine-science activity are relevant.  Documents 
that discuss the application of satellite remote sensing in 
geography, agriculture, forestry, mining and mineral prospecting 
or any land-bound science are not relevant, nor are references 
to international marketing or promotional advertizing of any 
remote-sensing technology.  Synthetic aperture radar (SAR) 
employed in ocean remote sensing is relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 356
<title> postmenopausal estrogen Britain

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents discussing the use of estrogen by 
postmenopausal women in Britain. 

<narr> Narrative: 
The use of hormone replacement therapy outside of the United 
Kingdom is not relevant.  United Kingdom and British 
development and marketing of estrogen suppressing 
drugs are relevant.   

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 357
<title> territorial waters dispute 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents discussing international boundary 
disputes relevant to the 200-mile special economic 
zones or 12-mile territorial waters subsequent to 
the passing of the "International Convention on the 
Law of the Sea".

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, documents must discuss an international 
boundary dispute relevant to the 200-mile special 
economic zones or 12-mile territorial waters subsequent 
to the passing of the "International Convention on the 
Law of the Sea".  Documents that merely express agreement 
or disagreement with any of the precepts of the "Law of 
the Sea" are not relevant, nor are any documents that 
passively allude to the existence of the convention or 
any of its non-controversial applications. 

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 358
<title> blood-alcohol fatalities

<desc> Description: 
What role does blood-alcohol level play in 
automobile accident fatalities?

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents must contain information
on automobile accidents in which there was a 
fatality and the blood-alcohol level of the
driver of the vehicle must be identified.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 359
<title> mutual fund predictors 

<desc> Description: 
Are there reliable and consistent predictors of
mutual fund performance?

<narr> Narrative: 
A document must contain at least one factor 
such as: rankings, risks, yields, or costs,
and fund performance to be relevant.  
Documents that discuss mutual fund rankings 
are considered relevant.  

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 360
<title> drug legalization benefits 

<desc> Description: 
What are the benefits, if any, of drug legalization?

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents may contain information on perceived
benefits of drug legalization, such as crime reduction, 
improved treatment using monies which otherwise would 
have gone for crime fighting, reduced drug addiction, 
and increased governmental income.  Documents that 
discuss drug legalization and whether legalization
is or is not perceived to be beneficial are relevant.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 361
<title> clothing sweatshops 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss clothing sweatshops.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document must identify the country, the working
conditions, salary, and type of clothing or shoes being 
produced.  Relevant documents may also include the name of 
the business or company or the type of manufacturing, such 
as:  "designer label".

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 362
<title> human smuggling 

<desc> Description: 
Identify incidents of human smuggling.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document shows an incident of humans 
(at least ten) being smuggled.  The smugglers 
would have to realize a monetary gain for their 
actions, while the people being smuggled may or 
may not be willing participants.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 363
<title> transportation tunnel disasters 

<desc> Description: 
What disasters have occurred in tunnels used for
transportation?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document identifies a disaster in a tunnel 
used for trains, motor vehicles, or people.  Wind 
tunnels and tunnels used for wiring, sewage, water, oil,
etc. are not relevant.  The cause of the problem may be 
fire, earthquake, flood, or explosion and can be 
accidental or planned.  Documents that discuss tunnel 
disasters occurring during construction of a tunnel 
are relevant if lives were threatened.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 364
<title> rabies 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents discussing cases where rabies
have been confirmed and what, if anything, is 
being done about it.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document identifies confirmed cases 
of rabies and may contain actions taken to correct 
the problem.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 365
<title> El Nino 

<desc> Description: 
What effects have been attributed to El Nino?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A document is relevant if it describes a particular
phenomenon (either specific event or generalization)
like flood, drought, warming, etc. and names 
El Nino as the cause or as being a contributing 
factor.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 366
<title> commercial cyanide uses 

<desc> Description: 
What are the industrial or commercial uses of 
cyanide or its derivatives? 
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A document is relevant if it names or describes a 
process that uses cyanide commercially or mentions
that cyanide-rich waste comes from a particular
industry.  

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 367
<title> piracy 

<desc> Description: 
What modern instances have there been of old fashioned
piracy, the boarding or taking control of boats? 
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Documents discussing piracy on any body of water are
relevant.  Documents discussing the legal taking of 
ships or their contents by a national authority are 
non-relevant.  Clashes between fishing vessels over
fishing are not relevant, unless one vessel is 
boarded.  

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 368
<title> in vitro fertilization 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss in vitro
fertilization.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will describe any aspect
of the process of in vitro fertilization:
uniting two human germ cells (sperm and egg)
outside of the human body and in an artificial
environment.   Documents that describe related 
techniques, such as the freezing of eggs, 
sperm, or embryos for future implantation are
also relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 369
<title> anorexia nervosa bulimia 

<desc> Description: 
What are the causes and treatments of anorexia nervosa
and bulimia?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will describe the causes of the 
eating disorders, anorexia nervosa or bulimia.
Documents that describe symptoms including the taking of 
laxatives, self-induced vomiting and excessive exercise 
are relevant.  Discussions of the treatment of the 
disorders are also relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 370
<title> food/drug laws 

<desc> Description: 
What are the laws dealing with the quality and processing
of food, beverages, or drugs?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will contain specific information on 
the laws dealing with such matters as quality control in
processing, the use of additives and preservatives, the 
avoidance of impurities and poisonous substances, spoilage
prevention, nutritional enrichment, and/or the grading of
meat and vegetables.  Relevant information includes, but 
is not limited to, federal regulations targeting three 
major areas of label abuse:  deceptive definitions, 
misleading health claims, and untrue serving sizes and
proposed standard definitions for such terms as high 
fiber and low fat.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 371
<title> health insurance holistic 

<desc> Description: 
What is the extent of health insurance coverage of 
holistic or other non-traditional medicine/medical treatments
(for example, acupuncture)?

<narr> Narrative: 
Discussions of whether or not particular health insurance
plans cover alternative treatments are relevant.  Discussions
of coverage for preventative programs such as health 
education or wellness sessions are also relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 372
<title> Native American casino

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss the growth of Native
American casino gambling.

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents include discussions regarding
Native American casino gambling: its social 
implications, effects on local and Native American
economies, and legal aspects related to Native
American tribal autonomy.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 373
<title> encryption equipment export 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss the concerns of
the United States regarding the export of 
encryption equipment.

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents that merely mention the name of a company
or group that produces encryption equipment but does
not mention the exportation and/or commercial exploitation
of the encryption equipment are not relevant.  Documents 
which refer to governmental access into the encryption 
systems for the purposes of counter-intelligence or 
anti-crime activities are relevant. 

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 374
<title> Nobel prize winners 

<desc> Description: 
Identify and provide background information on Nobel
prize winners.

<narr> Narrative: 
At a minimum, relevant documents must contain the 
following information:  year of Nobel prize award, 
field of study, and recipients name.  When the 
document announces what is obviously a current award,
no year is required.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 375
<title> hydrogen energy 

<desc> Description: 
What is the status of research on hydrogen as a 
feasible energy source?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will describe progress in 
research on controlled hydrogen fusion or the use
of hydrogen as fuel to power engines.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 376
<title> World Court 

<desc> Description: 
What types of cases were heard by the World Court
(International Court of Justice)?

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents that report on particular cases heard by the
World Court, including war tribunals created by the 
Court, are relevant.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 377
<title> cigar smoking 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss the renewed 
popularity of cigar smoking.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will discuss the extent of
the resurgence of cigar smoking or the social
and economic issues attendant to it.  Documents
that discuss "Cigar Nights", "Cigar Rooms" and
cigar production are relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 378
<title> euro opposition 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss opposition to the
introduction of the euro, the European currency.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document should include the countries
or individuals who oppose the use of the euro and 
the reason(s) for their opposition to its use.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 379
<title> mainstreaming 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss mainstreaming
children with physical or mental impairments.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will include the pros and
cons of mainstreaming children with physical
or mental impairments, the benefits to the 
impaired child, as well as the attitude, beliefs
and concerns of teachers and school administrators
with regard to taking time away from the "normal
children". 

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 380
<title> obesity medical treatment 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss medical treatment
of obesity. 

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document should identify prescribed
legal medications or treatments used to combat
obesity and the positive or negative affects
resulting from the applications.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 381
<title> alternative medicine 

<desc> Description: 
What forms of alternative medicine are being
used in the treatment of illnesses or diseases
and how successful are they?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document should identify a form of
alternative medicine which is being utilized 
in the treatment of a disease or illness, 
identify the illness or disease being treated,
and provide an indication of the success of the
procedure.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 382
<title> hydrogen fuel automobiles 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss the use of hydrogen as 
a fuel for piston driven automobiles (safe storage a
concern) or the use of hydrogen in fuel cells to generate
electricity to drive the car.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document may discuss either hydrogen using fuel 
cells to electrically power automobiles or it may discuss 
the safe storage of hydrogen gas in a fuel tank through 
the use of metal hydrides for use in piston engines. 

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 383
<title> mental illness drugs

<desc> Description: 
Identify drugs used in the treatment of mental illness.  
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will include the name of a specific
or generic type of drug.  Generalities are not relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 384
<title> space station moon 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss the building of
a space station with the intent of colonizing the
moon.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will discuss the purpose of a 
space station, initiatives towards colonizing the 
moon, impediments which thus far have thwarted such a 
project, plans currently underway or in the planning
stages for such a venture; cost, countries prepared
to make a commitment of men, resources, facilities
and money to accomplish such a feat.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 385
<title> hybrid fuel cars 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss the current status of
hybrid automobile engines, (i.e., cars fueled by something
other than gasoline only).
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document may include research on non-gasoline 
powered engines or prototypes that may be fueled by natural 
gas, methanol, alcohol; cost to the consumer; health benefits 
derived; and shortcomings in horsepower and passenger comfort.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 386
<title> teaching disabled children 

<desc> Description: 
What methods are currently utilized or anticipated in 
the teaching of disabled children?
  
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document should identify a method or procedure
currently used in the teaching of disabled children or one 
that is anticipated being available in the near future. 

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 387
<title> radioactive waste 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss effective and safe ways to 
permanently handle long-lived radioactive wastes.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Documents that discuss incineration, cementation, bitumenization, 
vitrification, and in underground nuclear explosion are relevant.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 388
<title> organic soil enhancement 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss the use of organic
fertilizers (composted sludge, ash, vegetable waste, 
microorganisms, etc.) as soil enhancers. 
  
<narr> Narrative: 
The focus of the topic is on soil enhancement.  
Documents that discuss other uses of organic material
are not relevant, nor are documents that concentrate
solely on chemical fertilizers.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 389
<title> illegal technology transfer 

<desc> Description: 
What specific entities have been accused of illegal 
technology transfer such as: selling their products, 
formulas, etc. directly or indirectly to foreign 
entities for other than peaceful purposes?
  
<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a selected document must specifically
identify a person, company, or governmental entity 
which provided articles useful for hostile purposes
to entities outside of their own country and such 
provision violated the laws of the provider's country.

</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 390
<title> orphan drugs 

<desc> Description: 
Find documents that discuss issues associated with so-called 
"orphan drugs", that is, drugs that treat diseases affecting 
relatively few people.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will discuss how the Orphan Drug Act 
is working on behalf of those who suffer from orphan 
diseases and conditions, or how this matter is handled in 
other countries.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 391
<title> R&D drug prices 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss the impact of the cost of research
and development (R&D) on the price of drugs.  

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents that describe how any aspect of the development of a drug
affects its price are relevant.  Documents that discuss other factors
that affect drug prices, such as advertising, without also discussing
R&D costs, are not relevant.

 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 392
<title> robotics 

<desc> Description: 
What are the applications of robotics in the world today?

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents concerning R&D or testing of robotic equipment
are not relevant, nor are documents discussing future 
applications of robotics.  If the task completed seems to
be merely another computer function rather than a task 
usually done by people, then it is not relevant.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 393
<title> mercy killing 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss mercy killings.

<narr> Narrative: 
All individual cases of mercy killing are relevant, except
that "letters to the editor" mentioning cases are not relevant.  
The removal of life support systems is relevant.  A general 
mention or description of a case without specifics, such as 
victim's name are not relevant.  Cases determined to be a
murder-suicide are not relevant.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 394
<title> home schooling 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss the education of 
children at home (home schooling). 

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document would contain any data on
the education of children in a home environment.
Included could be data on where, by whom, 
community acceptance, and successes.  Additional
data on programs aiding the education of 
disadvantaged children in an away-from-school
environment such as mobile vehicle classrooms
would be considered as home schooling and are 
therefore relevant.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 395
<title> tourism 

<desc> Description: 
Provide examples of successful attempts to attract 
tourism as a means to improve a local economy.

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a selected document will specify
the entity (city, state, country, governmental unit)
which has achieved an economic increase due to the 
entity's efforts at boosting tourism.  Documents 
which only concern plans for increasing tourism are
not relevant, only documents which detail an actual
increase are relevant.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 396
<title> sick building syndrome 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss sick building syndrome or
building-related illnesses.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document would contain any data that refers to 
the sick building or building-related illnesses, including
illnesses caused by asbestos, air conditioning, pollution
controls.  Work-related illnesses not caused by the building,
such as carpal tunnel syndrome, are not relevant.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 397
<title> automobile recalls

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss the reasons for 
automobile recalls. 
 
<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will specify major or minor reasons 
for automobile recalls by car manufacturers.  Documents 
that discuss truck recalls are not relevant.  
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 398
<title> dismantling Europe's arsenal 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss the 
European Conventional Arms Cut as it
relates to the dismantling of Europe's
arsenal.
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents may address any of the
following issues:  reducing conventional (non-
nuclear) forces in Europe (CFE), efforts toward 
reduction that have begun or have been accomplished, 
the numbers of weapons or manpower reduced through 
this treaty, comparisons of numbers of reductions 
made by the Warsaw Pact and NATO, and the effect 
this arms cut is having on European nations.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 399
<title> oceanographic vessels 

<desc> Description: 
Identify documents that discuss the 
activities or equipment of oceanographic 
vessels.
  
<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents will contain information on
the activity of oceanographic vessels regardless
of nationality.  Such items as undersea mapping,
monitoring global warming, marine environmental
monitoring and the use of deep sea robots to 
search for sunken ships are relevant to oceanography
activity.  Also relevant are such actions as using
the vessel for research and development of new 
equipment or exploring oceanic resources.  Any 
reference to equipment in use aboard an oceanographic
vessel is relevant.  Documents that identify a vessel
as a survey ship which is involved in oceanographic
activity is also relevant.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 400 
<title> Amazon rain forest 

<desc> Description: 
What measures are being taken by local South
American authorities to preserve the Amazon
tropical rain forest?
 
<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents may identify: the official 
organizations, institutions, and individuals
of the countries included in the Amazon rain
forest; the measures being taken by them to
preserve the rain forest; and indications of
degrees of success in these endeavors.
 
</top>


<top>

<num> Number: 401 
<title> foreign minorities, Germany 

<desc> Description: 
What language and cultural differences impede the integration 
of foreign minorities in Germany?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will focus on the causes of the lack of
integration in a significant way; that is, the mere mention of
immigration difficulties is not relevant.  Documents that discuss
immigration problems unrelated to Germany are also not relevant.  

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 402 
<title> behavioral genetics 

<desc> Description: 
What is happening in the field of behavioral genetics,
the study of the relative influence of genetic
and environmental factors on an individual's behavior
or personality?

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents describing genetic or environmental factors relating
to understanding and preventing substance abuse and addictions
are relevant.  Documents pertaining to attention deficit disorders
tied in with genetics are also relevant, as are genetic disorders 
affecting hearing or muscles.  The genome project is relevant
when tied in with behavior disorders (i.e., mood disorders,
Alzheimer's disease). 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 403 
<title> osteoporosis 

<desc> Description: 
Find information on the effects of the dietary intakes
of potassium, magnesium and fruits and vegetables as
determinants of bone mineral density in elderly men
and women thus preventing osteoporosis (bone decay). 

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document may include one or more of the
dietary intakes in the prevention of osteoporosis.
Any discussion of the disturbance of nutrition and
mineral metabolism that results in a decrease in 
bone mass is also relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 404 
<title> Ireland, peace talks 

<desc> Description: 
How often were the peace talks in Ireland delayed
or disrupted as a result of acts of violence?

<narr> Narrative: 
Any interruptions to the peace process not directly
attributable to acts of violence are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 405 
<title> cosmic events 

<desc> Description: 
What unexpected or unexplained cosmic events or
celestial phenomena, such as radiation and 
supernova outbursts or new comets, have been detected?

<narr> Narrative: 
New theories or new interpretations concerning 
known celestial objects made as a result of new 
technology are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 406 
<title> Parkinson's disease 

<desc> Description: 
What is being done to treat the symptoms of 
Parkinson's disease and keep the patient 
functional as long as possible?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document identifies a drug or treatment 
program utilized in patient care and provides 
an indication of success or failure.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 407 
<title> poaching, wildlife preserves 

<desc> Description: 
What is the impact of poaching on 
the world's various wildlife preserves? 

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document must discuss poaching in wildlife
preserves, not in the wild itself.  Also deemed relevant
is evidence of preventive measures being taken by local
authorities.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 408 
<title> tropical storms 

<desc> Description: 
What tropical storms (hurricanes and typhoons) have
caused significant property damage and loss of life?

<narr> Narrative: 
The date of the storm, the area affected, and the extent of 
damage/casualties are all of interest.  Documents that describe
the damage caused by a tropical storm as "slight", "limited", or
"small" are not relevant. 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 409 
<title> legal, Pan Am, 103 

<desc> Description: 
What legal actions have resulted from the destruction
of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, on
December 21, 1988?  

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents describing any charges, claims, or fines 
presented to or imposed by any court or tribunal are
relevant, but documents that discuss charges made in
diplomatic jousting are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 410 
<title> Schengen agreement 

<desc> Description: 
Who is involved in the Schengen agreement to eliminate border
controls in Western Europe and what do they hope to accomplish?

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents will contain any information about the
actions of signatories of the Schengen agreement such as:
measures to eliminate border controls (removal of traffic
obstacles, lifting of traffic restrictions); implementation
of the information system data bank that contains unified
visa issuance procedures; or strengthening of border controls
at the external borders of the treaty area in exchange for 
free movement at the internal borders.  Discussions of border 
crossovers for business purposes are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 411 
<title> salvaging, shipwreck, treasure 

<desc> Description: 
Find information on shipwreck salvaging: the
recovery or attempted recovery of treasure from
sunken ships.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will provide information on
the actual locating and recovery of treasure; 
on the technology which makes possible the discovery,
location and investigation of wreckages which 
contain or are suspected of containing treasure; or
on the disposition of the recovered treasure. 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 412 
<title> airport security 

<desc> Description: 
What security measures are in effect or are proposed
to go into effect in airports?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document could identify a specific airport
and describe the security measures already in effect 
or proposed for use at that airport.  Relevant items
could also describe a failure of security that was
cited as a contributing cause of a tragedy which came 
to pass or which was later averted.  Comparisons between
and among airports based on the effectiveness of the
security of each are also relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 413 
<title> steel production 

<desc> Description: 
What are new methods of producing steel?

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents will discuss the processes adapted
by entrepreneurs who have organized so-called "minimills"
and are producing steel by methods which differ from
the old blast furnace method of production.  Documents 
that identify the new companies, the problems they have
have encountered, and/or their successes or failures in
the national and international markets are also relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 414 
<title> Cuba, sugar, exports 

<desc> Description: 
How much sugar does Cuba export and which
countries import it?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will provide information
regarding Cuba's sugar trade.  Sugar production
statistics are not relevant unless exports
are mentioned explicitly.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 415 
<title> drugs, Golden Triangle 

<desc> Description: 
What is known about drug trafficking in the
"Golden Triangle", the area where Burma,
Thailand and Laos meet?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will discuss drug
trafficking in the Golden Triangle,
including organizations that produce or
distribute the drugs; international efforts
to combat the traffic; or the quantities of
drugs produced in the area.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 416 
<title> Three Gorges Project 

<desc> Description: 
What is the status of The Three Gorges Project?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will provide the projected
date of completion of the project, its estimated
total cost, or the estimated electrical output of
the the finished project.  Discussions of the
social, political, or ecological impact of the
project are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 417 
<title> creativity 

<desc> Description: 
Find ways of measuring creativity.

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant items include definitions of creativity,
descriptions of characteristics associated with
creativity, and factors linked to creativity. 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 418 
<title> quilts, income 

<desc> Description: 
In what ways have quilts been used to generate income?

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents mentioning quilting books, quilting classes,
quilted objects, and museum exhibits of quilts are all relevant.  
Documents that discuss AIDs quilts are irrelevant, unless 
there is specific mention that the quilts are being used 
for fundraising.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 419 
<title> recycle, automobile tires 

<desc> Description: 
What new uses have been developed for old
automobile tires as a means of tire recycling?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document must show advantageous uses of
recycled tires, such as:  destructive distillation of 
scrap rubber for valuable chemicals, reef building
for fish habitats, filler or binder in asphalt
roadway mixes, and burning in a controlled 
environment for heat generation.  

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 420 
<title> carbon monoxide poisoning 

<desc> Description: 
How widespread is carbon monoxide poisoning on 
a global scale?

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents will contain data on
what carbon monoxide poisoning is, symptoms,
causes, and/or prevention.  Advertisements for
carbon monoxide protection products or services 
are not relevant.  Discussions of auto emissions
and air pollution are not relevant even though
they can contain carbon monoxide.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 421 
<title> industrial waste disposal 

<desc> Description: 
How is the disposal of industrial waste being accomplished
by industrial management throughout the world? 

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents that discuss the disposal, storage, or management
of industrial waste---both standard and hazardous---are
relevant.  However, documents that discuss disposal or
storage of nuclear or radioactive waste, or the illegal
shipment or dumping of waste to avoid legal disposal
methods are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 422 
<title> art, stolen, forged

<desc> Description: 
What incidents have there been of stolen or forged art?

<narr> Narrative: 
Instances of stolen or forged art in any media are relevant. 
Stolen mass-produced things, even though they might be 
decorative, are not relevant (unless they are mass-
produced art reproductions). Pirated software, music, movies, 
etc. are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 423 
<title> Milosevic, Mirjana Markovic 

<desc> Description: 
Find references to Milosevic's wife, Mirjana Markovic.

<narr> Narrative: 
Any mention of the Serbian president's wife is
relevant, even if she is not named.  She may be referred to
by her nickname, Mira.  A general mention of his family, 
without specifying his wife, is not relevant. 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 424 
<title> suicides 

<desc> Description: 
Give examples of alleged suicides that aroused suspicion
of the death actually being murder.

<narr> Narrative: 
The intent of this query is to find criminal murders that 
are being disguised as suicide, but assisted suicides done
out of compassion would be relevant if someone refers to 
them as murder.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 425 
<title> counterfeiting money 

<desc> Description: 
What counterfeiting of money is being done in
modern times?

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents must cite actual instances
of counterfeiting.   Anti-counterfeiting measures by
themselves are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 426 
<title> law enforcement, dogs 

<desc> Description: 
Provide information on the use of dogs worldwide for 
law enforcement purposes.

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant items include specific information on the
use of dogs during an operation.  Training of dogs
and their handlers are also relevant.  

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 427
<title> UV damage, eyes 

<desc> Description: 
Find documents that discuss the damage ultraviolet (UV)
light from the sun can do to eyes.

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will discuss diseases that result
from exposure of the eyes to UV light, treatments
for the damage, and/or education programs that help
prevent damage.  Documents discussing treatment
methods for cataracts and ocular melanoma are relevant
even when a specific cause is not mentioned.  However,
documents that discuss radiation damage from nuclear
sources or lasers are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 428 
<title> declining birth rates 

<desc> Description: 
Do any countries other than the U.S. and China have
a declining birth rate? 

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a document will name a country other than the U.S. 
or China in which the birth rate fell from the rate of the
previous year.  The decline need not have occurred in more
than the one preceding year.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 429 
<title> Legionnaires' disease 

<desc> Description: 
Identify outbreaks of Legionnaires' disease.

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a document must discuss a specific outbreak
of Legionnaires' disease.  Documents that address prevention of
or cures for the disease without citing a specific case are 
not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 430 
<title> killer bee attacks 

<desc> Description: 
Identify instances of attacks on humans by Africanized 
(killer) bees.  

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents must cite a specific instance of a human
attacked by killer bees.  Documents that note migration patterns
or report attacks on other animals are not relevant unless they
also cite an attack on a human.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 431 
<title> robotic technology 

<desc> Description: 
What are the latest developments in robotic technology?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will contain information on 
current applications of robotic technology.  Discussions
of robotics research or simulations of robots are
not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 432 
<title> profiling, motorists, police 

<desc> Description: 
Do police departments use "profiling" to stop motorists?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will report or discuss police department 
criteria for identifying motorists considered likely to be
carrying contraband.  Documents discussing the detention of
individuals by foreign security forces are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 433 
<title> Greek, philosophy, stoicism 

<desc> Description: 
Is there contemporary interest in the Greek
philosophy of stoicism?

<narr> Narrative: 
Actual references to the philosophy or philosophers, 
productions of Greek stoic plays, and new "stoic" 
artistic productions are all relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 434 
<title> Estonia, economy 

<desc> Description: 
What is the state of the economy of Estonia?

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents that give concrete economic information
such as economic statistics, entering economic unions
and treaties, or monetary performance are relevant,
as are discussions of economic issues such as 
transportation or pollution.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 435 
<title> curbing population growth 

<desc> Description: 
What measures have been taken worldwide and what 
countries have been effective in curbing
population growth?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document must describe an actual case in which 
population measures have been taken and their results are known.
The reduction measures must have been actively pursued;
that is, passive events such as disease or famine
involuntarily reducing the population are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 436 
<title> railway accidents 

<desc> Description: 
What are the causes of railway accidents throughout
the world? 

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document provides data on railway accidents
of any sort (i.e., locomotive, trolley, streetcar) where
either the railroad system or the vehicle or pedestrian
involved caused the accident.  Documents that discuss
railroading in general, new rail lines, new technology
for safety, and safety and accident prevention 
are not relevant, unless an actual accident is described.  

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 437 
<title> deregulation, gas, electric 

<desc> Description: 
What has been the experience of residential utility
customers following deregulation of gas and electric?

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents that discuss privatization of government-
owned utilities alone are not relevant.  Also, not
relevant are documents that discuss the deregulation 
of utilities for commercial customers.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 438 
<title> tourism, increase 

<desc> Description: 
What countries are experiencing an increase in
tourism?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document will name a country that
has experienced an increase in tourism.
The increase must represent the nation as a whole
and tourism in general, not be restricted to only
certain regions of the country or to some specific
type of tourism (e.g., adventure travel).  Documents
discussing only projected increases are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 439 
<title> inventions, scientific discoveries 

<desc> Description: 
What new inventions or scientific discoveries have been
made?  

<narr> Narrative: 
The word "new" in the description is defined as occurring
in the 1990s.  Documents that indicate a "recent" 
invention or scientific discovery are considered relevant.
Discoveries made in astronomy or any scientific discoveries
that are not patentable are not relevant.  

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 440 
<title> child labor 

<desc> Description: 
What steps are being taken by governments or corporations 
to eliminate abuse of child labor?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document identifies an action taken by either 
a private commercial corporation or governmental organization 
to reduce or eliminate the use of child labor in manufacturing 
operations.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 441 
<title> Lyme disease 

<desc> Description: 
How do you prevent and treat Lyme disease?

<narr> Narrative: 
Documents that discuss current prevention and
treatment techniques for Lyme disease are
relevant.  Reports of research on new
treatments of the disease are also relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 442 
<title> heroic acts 

<desc> Description: 
Find accounts of selfless heroic acts by individuals or 
small groups for the benefit of others or a cause.

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant documents will contain a description of specific
acts.  General statements concerning heroic acts are not
relevant. 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 443 
<title> U.S., investment, Africa 

<desc> Description: 
What is the extent of U.S. (government and private)
investment in sub-Saharan Africa?

<narr> Narrative: 
All references to U.S. Governmental and private assistance
to sub-Saharan Africa are relevant.  Documents discussing
contributions by reason of U.S. membership in international
aid organizations are also relevant. 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 444 
<title> supercritical fluids

<desc> Description: 
What are the potential uses for supercritical fluids
as an environmental protection measure?

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a document must indicate that the 
fluid involved is achieved by a process of pressurization
producing the supercritical fluid.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 445
<title> women clergy 

<desc> Description: 
What other countries besides the United States are considering 
or have approved women as clergy persons?

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a document must indicate either a country 
where a woman has been installed as clergy or a country
that is considering such an installation.  The clergy position
must be as church pastor rather than some other church capacity
(e.g., nun or choir member). 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 446 
<title> tourists, violence 

<desc> Description: 
Where are tourists likely to be subjected to
acts of violence causing bodily harm or death?

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document must contain accounts of known 
harm to tourists.  Evidence of single, isolated
incidents are not relevant.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 447 
<title> Stirling engine 

<desc> Description: 
What new developments and applications are there
for the Stirling engine?

<narr> Narrative: 
Any discussion of new developments and applications of the
Stirling engine (also known as the Stirling cycle) are relevant. 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 448 
<title> ship losses 

<desc> Description: 
Identify instances in which weather was a main or contributing
factor in the loss of a ship at sea.  

<narr> Narrative: 
Any ship loss due to weather is relevant, either in international
or coastal waters.

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 449 
<title> antibiotics ineffectiveness 

<desc> Description: 
What has caused the current ineffectiveness of
antibiotics against infections and what is
the prognosis for new drugs?

<narr> Narrative: 
To be relevant, a document must discuss the reasons or 
causes for the ineffectiveness of current antibiotics.
Relevant documents may also include efforts by pharmaceutical
companies and federal government agencies to find new cures, 
updating current testing phases, new drugs being tested,
and the prognosis for the availability of new and effective
antibiotics. 

</top>

<top>

<num> Number: 450 
<title> King Hussein, peace 

<desc> Description: 
How significant a figure over the years was the late
Jordanian King Hussein in furthering peace in the 
Middle East?  

<narr> Narrative: 
A relevant document must include mention of Israel;
King Hussein himself as opposed to other Jordanian
officials; discussion of the King's on-going, previous 
or upcoming efforts; and efforts pertinent to the peace 
process, not merely Jordan's relationship with other 
middle-east countries or the U.S. 

</top>


